URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/gen-z-outfit-ideas-spring-2026
Scope: aesthetic_and_cultural_trends
Title: Straight From My FYP: 7 Gen Z Outfits I’m Wearing on Repeat

Whenever I’m stuck in a rut for outfit ideas, there's one group I always rely on to provide me with a plethora of inspiration. From Iris Law to Ruby Lyn, I have a carefully curated gang of Gen Z influencers and celebrities that I often look to on TikTok and Instagram. Whilst most associate people in their twenties with hyper-trend, eclectic styling, as one of Who What Wear UK’s resident Gen Z fashion editors, I know my generation’s style is more multifaceted than this.

You often see "Millennial vs Gen Z" headlines out there, but having grown tired of the narrative of pitting generations against each other, I’ve decided to make it my mission to prove just how elevated Gen Z outfits can be. Whilst yes, our most stylish dressers on the apps adopt fun nostalgic trends or accessories, the root and formula of these looks are often quite timeless, and can be worn by anyone.

Dipping and diving into iconic trends and silhouettes of years gone by, their outfits are often dripped in nostalgia—but not necessarily specific to one decade or movement. Whether it's the loosely layered pieces from the Indie Sleaze era or the It bags of 2016, each look might have some influences, but that doesn't mean that they can’t be elevated. You may have a classic minimalist style, be someone who dreams of Jennifer Aniston '90s rotation or maybe you’re a Y2K maximalist who looks to more colour, sportswear and embellished details. Either way, there is much to learn from these Gen Z style insiders.

I’ve spotlighted seven outfits worth replicating from my favourite people to follow. Enjoy!

Style Notes: As mentioned, whilst Gen Z does tend to be trend-focused through execution, many of their key pieces do, in fact, feel quite timeless. Take Marie-Victoire’s look, for example. In a sweeping maxi scarf-coat and loose jeans (a simple pairing loved cross-generationally), she uses the cult-favourite Isabel Marant wedge sneaker and a baker-boy hat to add some edge.

Trust me: fringe is about to be everywhere this spring.

These are an expensive-looking high-street find you'll pull out year after year.

Isabel Marant Bekett wedge trainers are back.

With tassels galore, this grain-textured Isabel Marant bag is perfect if you want to throw everything in and go, whilst still looking chic.

Whats not to love about a Y2K-coded baker-boy hat?

Style Notes: Nostalgic prints and pretty colourways are something the coolest Gen Z’s know all about. They love a statement print (be it leopard, deer or snake), but pattern is where they shine. From the playful polka dots popular last summer to charismatic check prints creeping in right now, it's a fail-safe way to inject some fun energy without looking like you’re trying too hard. On a warmer day, lean into Emili Sindlev’s loose layered tops and sheer fabrics in pastel colourways, and pair with functional yet on-trend sneakerinas. Extra points if you can accessorise with a designer or statement bag in a matching colour.

I have a feeling this is Emili's exact skirt.

If you're tired of your current trainer rotation, why not try this Taekwondo ballet-flat hybrid instead?

The Loewe puzzle never dates, and I love this sandy-yellow colourway for spring.

Miu Miu is dialled all the way into the Gen Z aesthetic.

Style Notes: Heavily influenced by nostalgic ‘90s fashion, many of the silhouettes from this decade have crept into the capsule wardrobes of the best-dressed Gen Zs. From straight-leg jeans to slim-line leather jackets, cowboy boots to slinky scarves, they’re using the simplest pieces to elevate their looks. Creating a polished yet unfussy outfit, it feels put-together but never boring.

A sleek leather jacket you'll wear for years.

If its good enough for Hailey Bieber, its good enough for me!

If you're tired of leopard, go for this chic cow-print bag.

Haven't you heard? 2016 called, and ankle boots are so back!

Style Notes: As I was saying, no two Gen Z outfits are the same. Playing with classic pieces like a sweeping maxi coat and funnel-neck jumper, Olivia Anna-Catharina T (pictured above) creates a modern-day Western-inspired cowboy look with a 2026 twist. By matching her playful fringed accessories to those of her coat and finishing with double-waist cigarette jeans ( tucked into her boots in a ‘ 90s fashion ), her look has an overarching softness to it, whilst maintaining an elevated edge.

Trust me: you'll pull out this timeless shawl coat year after year.

Every Who What Wear UK fashion editor adores the COS Cashmere Funnel-Neck Jumper.

I predict a double-waisted-jeans trend creeping in!

Pair with a skirt and jumper for an elevated daytime look.

The Prada Dada is fast becoming the first It bag of 2026.

Style Notes: Gen Z loves heavy layering. From dresses over trousers to multi-layered tank tops and tees, this styling trick is a fail-safe way to bring life into an outfit. Known for her love of all things cute and cool, Iris Law's quintessentially London-coded look blends contrasting pretty pastel shades and kitschy (perhaps clashing) accessories, like her vintage Louis Vuitton bag, to create an outfit which feels spirited yet perfect for spring.

Trust me: you can never go wrong with a With Nothing Underneath shirt.

Can you ever go wrong with a cosy grey cardi?

If you're on the hunt for Iris' exact bag, you're in luck!

How sweet are these petal-pink embroidered ballet flats?

Style Notes: When you dissect them, Gen Z outfits really do have a sense of timelessness, albeit with an untraditional approach to styling. Take Claire Most’s Bermuda shorts, pictured above. They're a classic silhouette, but by pairing them with a layered black top and vivid red cardigan, on-trend Nike Rifts and a slouchy shoulder bag, her look feels unique. Swap the trainers for a higher boot, and suddenly it's more winter-appropriate, or throw on a black jumper to make it perfect for minimalists. It's proof that with a simple base, you can pick and choose the elements you splash in.

The editor-loved cardigan, down to the exact colourway.

With a tapered finish, these long wool Bermuda shorts will keep you warm on the greyest days.

You heard it here first: The Nike Air Rift is about to be everywhere this summer.

Style Notes: If mixing the timeless with the eclectic is your thing, Mira Al-Momani’s look might be perfect for you. Capri pants or leggings are such a Gen Z staple—there’s something so ‘00s about the cut that feels just a little cooler than denim or longer leggings. If you want to elevate your top half from a simple T-shirt, look to sportier pieces, like vintage activewear or something like this tee with the New York Yankees motif. And to make it more playful, go for a pair of " ugly” or divisive shoes, like Vibram Fivefingers, which even I'm too afraid to try.

Mira's exact top has sold out everywhere, but this bottle green feels perfect for winter.

This is your reminder to get your capris early this year.

If you're in the market for a mid-range bag that will endure ever-changing trends, look no further than Polène.

Imani-Nia Francis-Tsolaki is Junior Fashion Editor at Who What Wear UK, where she expertly navigates Gen-Z-aligned editorial content and brand try-ons to unearth the most worthwhile pieces, while valiantly resisting the urge to add every single one to her basket.

At Who What Wear, Imani is committed to uncovering cool new brands to share with the WWW UK readership, and finding gems that make shopping accessible (and fun) for everyone.