URL: https://www.vogue.com/slideshow/10-best-dressed-stars-amal-clooney-simone-ashley-sarah-pidgeon
Scope: celebrity_editor_and_street_style
Title: The Best Dressed Stars of the Week Put a Pep in Our Step

The 2026 Met Gala may be tomorrow, but ahead of the highly-anticipated event, this week’s red carpets did not care to pause on delivering some high-fashion moments. In fact, quite the contrary: A-listers served energetic looks all week long, choosing designs with bright hues and interesting silhouettes that instantly put a pep in our step.

Amal Clooney kicked off the week on a bright note, while attending the Chaplin Awards Gala in New York City, where her husband George Clooney was honored with an award. She chose a magenta Balenciaga number, worn off the shoulder with an elongated train. Another perfect spring hue came via A$AP Rocky in Chanel, as the rapper attended the label’s cruise 2026 show in Biarritz, color-blocking a red shirt against a pink flap bag.

Strong, structured shapes shined on stars like Greta Lee (in a red body-contouring Issey Miyake bodice) and Billie Eilish, who embraced Celine’s tailoring for the premiere of her new tour documentary. (Her little striped tie? So good.)

There were a few stellar vintage moments this week, too. In Miami, The Devil Wears Prada 2 star Simone Ashley chose a vintage teal Chloé sundress—perfect for the tropical setting. Just last night in New York, model Kendall Jenner attended a private pre-Met bash (hosted by Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez) wearing a black Mugler number from fall 1993, complete with bowed detailing. Both proof that a throwback design can still feel modern and totally fresh.

Which were your favorite celebrity looks this week? Vote below, and check back on Friday to see who Vogue readers crowned best dressed.

These Are Fast Becoming the 8 Celebrity It Bags of the Season

Amal Clooney’s Airport Outfit Takes a Fashion Cue From Victoria Beckham and Jennifer Lopez

Listen to The Run-Through with Vogue, a weekly podcast featuring the most exciting stories and hot takes from the worlds of culture, politics, sports and–of course–fashion

The Vogue Runway app has expanded! Update to the latest version to see all Vogue content, as well as new features like our Runway Genius quiz, Group Chats, and posts from Vogue contributors.

Become a Vogue Business Member! Join today to gain access to our latest series ‘ Fashion’s Real Reset Starts Now ’. The ultimate resource for fashion and beauty industry professionals.

Explore the Runway Image Archive where you can access over 1.2 million runway images from past and present fashion shows.