URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/celebrity-style/white-dress-trend-over-50s-gwyneth-paltrow-2026
Scope: celebrity_editor_and_street_style
Title: Gwyneth Paltrow Just Updated Her Ageless Summer Dress Trend With the Prettiest Accessories

White throw-on dresses have always been, and will forever remain, a perennial summer staple. Effortless, timeless and always chic, it’s no surprise that Gwyneth Paltrow is among the first to revisit the hero item this season. She chose an elegant button-down midi, complete with a shirt-inspired silhouette, short sleeves and a softly flared skirt that added a polished energy to the summery style.

Not stopping there, Gwyneth gave her little white dress a fresh update, draping a sky-blue knit casually around her waist and stepping into a pair of tonal baby-blue peep-toe mules.

This icy shade of blue is quickly emerging as one of the season’s defining colours. Light and optimistic, it brings a sense of energy to an outfit without overwhelming it. Pairing beautifully with crisp neutrals like white, whilst also lifting deeper tones. Seen across spring/summer collections, this frosty hue already feels synonymous with the season ahead. And when styled with a classic white dress, it offers an easy way to make a timeless piece feel newly relevant.

Ageless and effortless, this pairing is one you’ll return to time and again. Read on to shop the best white dresses to wear this summer and well beyond.

Be quick! I can't see this staying in stock for long.

This throw-on dress is perfect for high summer styling.

Style with sky blue heels or pair with a low-key flip-flop.

I always come back to Sézane for their elegant summer dresses.

A throw-on white dress will never go out of style.

The cotton composition ensures a breezy, comfortable fit.

Doen's summer dresses are a fashion person's favourite.

With an interest in uncovering the latest fashion trends, Natalie takes a leading role in identifying news for Who What Wear UK. Reporting on a daily basis, Natalie focuses on trends on and off the runway, as well as street style and celebrity fashion. Natalie also creates content for Who What Wear’s social channels including TikTok and Instagram on a weekly basis.