URL: https://www.wgsn.com/en/blog/colour-year-2026-transformative-teal
Scope: color_trends_and_color_theory
Title: Colour of the Year 2026: Transformative Teal

Discover WGSN and Coloro’s Colour of the Year for 2026, Transformative Teal. A fluid fusion between dependable dark blue and aquatic green, this is the colour for a period of change and redirection.

WGSN forecasts 2026 to be the year of redirection, marked by increased consumer demand for greater ecological responsibility. This shift will influence not only consumer behaviour, with a growing focus on the future, but also production, with future consumer needs and desires reflected in colour choices.

Every year, WGSN and Coloro combine their powers to forecast the Colour of the Year. This isn’t a new phenomenon for WGSN and Coloro. Digital Lavender took the title for 2023; Apricot Crush reigns supreme for 2024; and Future Dusk will come out on top for 2025. These hues have and will make an impact on the catwalks, beauty, interiors, and packaging. Next up is Transformative Teal, bringing a sense of freshness, calm, and restoration.

In 2026, WGSN predicts that old ideas will be challenged as people demand urgent changes to how we treat our societies, organise our industries, and cooperate with our environments.

Transformative Teal is a fluid fusion of blue and aquatic green that reflects the diversity of nature and taps into an Earth-first mindset. It represents change and redirection, and can help encourage resilience in the face of complex climate challenges.

We have also seen growing interest in green and blue in purchase-related searches in recent months. Searches for teal specifically increased by 9% YoY on Google Trends.

Consumers have reached exhaustion in an era of excess stimulation and reduced attention spans, worsened by the fatigue of negative news cycles and readjusting to the post-pandemic world. As a result, brands must find new ways to stand out from the competition.

According to WGSN research, 98% of respondents say their purchasing decisions are influenced by colour. Colour plays a fundamental role in the identity of brands and their products, and the relationship between colour and emotion must now be a commercial consideration for brands.