URL: https://www.wgsn.com/en/blog/key-colours-w-26-27
Scope: color_trends_and_color_theory
Title: Key Colours A/W 26/27

As we approach 2026, the year of redirection and challenging old ideas, more people will recognise the urgent need for change. In this context, colours will play a crucial role in consumers’ lives and choices, especially where polarisation intensifies.

Redirection, opportunity, polarisation, stability and restoration will be the keywords for A/W 26/27. For colour, polarisations are at the heart of the selection, from opposites on the colour wheel to how each colour makes people feel and motivate them

Check out the 5 Key Colours selected by WGSN and Coloro experts for the A/W 26/27 season.

Transformative Teal is the 2026 Colour of the Year. A fluid fusion of classic dark blue and aqua green, this is the perfect colour for a time of change and redirection.

Click here and read the full content about the Colour of the Year 2026

Invest in Transformative Teal as an alternative dark for the season. This gender-inclusive and transitional shade can be applied to apparel ranging from utility to occasion. For beauty, embrace the mood and dark quality of this shade for colour cosmetics, hair, nails and packaging.

The creamy yellow and off-white shade of Wax Paper is a near-neutral shade with a soothing and serene character. There is a warmth to this hue that evokes feelings of glowing from within, diluted winter sun and bathing in that light. A colour designed for healing, it connects with nature through sustainable and ancient colour practices. This shade also has a wholesome and resourceful quality, driven by the importance of bio-based materials and protein-based fibres like casein and silk, which inspire the calming colour.

Embrace the delicacy of Wax Paper as a new near-neutral. The subtle and rich nature of this colour allows it to appeal to all age demographics. The simplicity of this hue plays into #Minimalism, where #EnhancedNeutrals come to the fore.

Inspired by a craving for immersive experiences, Fresh Purple is a culturally emotive colour with links to royalty, love, mystery and spirituality. This shade is about flipping what we know about it on its head and looking at it from a fresh perspective. Linking with creative stimulation, energy and phenomenal experiences, the phygital quality of this colour and its links with AI continue to challenge perceptions and give it a fresh start with new life in the virtual world.

Make an impact with Fresh Purple by embracing its phygital quality. This energetic and youthful colour will work either as an accent or statement solid colour across womenswear, menswear, activewear and kidswear. For home and interiors, use Fresh Purple as a solid colour application on resin, matte and shiny materials.

Cocoa Powder is a red-toned brown which evokes feelings of nostalgia. Inspired by a craving for the past and physical reality in the age of AI, this hue champions art, craft and the handmade. There is a tenderness to it which brings to mind the passing of time and a search for slowness. Highlighting the continued importance of brown and a move to the ‘absence’ of colour, more focus is placed on grounding and foundational levels. This level has a natural quality that brings to mind materials found in nature, like cacao, mushrooms and forest undergrowth.

Invest in the earthy and elegant hue of Cocoa Powder as your statement brown for the season. In fashion, Cocoa Powder should be embraced as a new dark with transseasonal appeal. Suitable for footwear and accessories in menswear and womenswear, this shade’s versatility is endless. Play into its premiumisation for hard materials, using metallic finishes for tech, interiors and sports and outdoor.

Green Glow is a highly emotive and responsive bright. Sitting between yellow and green, this hue radiates and illuminates, bringing to mind neon and infrared lights. It has a hypnotic quality that can evoke a mix of emotions, from uneasiness to enthusiasm, fuelling a sense of escapism in everyday life. Rallying into themes of Nocturnal Living, where more of life happens after dark due to record high temperatures and lifestyle shifts, we draw inspiration from colours that glow and are highly visible in the dark.

Embrace the high energy of Green Glow as a statement bright for the season. Tap into the trend for nocturnal living by using this colour for active and sports equipment that can be used at night. For beauty, use Green Glow for fragrance, packaging and colour cosmetics for a youth-led look that ties into Rave Renaissance.

Click here to download the sample of Key Colours A/W 26/27.

Want access to the full report? Click here and schedule a demo with WGSN experts to discover the importance and influence of colour.

We decode colour as the human eye sees it – by hue, lightness and chroma.

Each of our 3,500 colours is specified by a unique seven-digit code, representing the point where hue, lightness and chroma intersect. This allows you to organise and analyse colour like never before. The Coloro logic provides creatives with a new way to objectively view colour and create responsible palettes with longevity.

Coloro is the new way to work with colour. Our logical colour system pairs unlimited colour with complete control, giving designers the freedom to create and execute colour with total confidence.

Coloro provides unlimited actionable colour opportunities, all logically organised and easily searchable by hue, lightness and chroma. Move from indigo to teal in a breeze, knowing every colour represented could define the next sellout product. The Coloro Universal Colour System works everywhere, on everything and with everyone, making sure you start every project with the world’s most accurate colour system, trusted by leading brands and innovators.