URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/pants-trousers/spring-trends-to-wear-with-leggings-2026
Scope: denim_and_pants_trends
Title: It's True: Leggings Can Look Chic, *If* You Wear Them With These 6 Elegant Spring Trends

There are very few pieces in my wardrobe that I consider genuine forever pieces. The kind that strikes the perfect balance between style, versatility, and comfort. And although I adore my midi poplin skirts and would never, ever get rid of my classic jeans, the truth is that on a typical day, you’re most likely to find me in my leggings. However, as much as I love them, I still find myself running into a common dilemma: how can I make them look chic and put together for those more formal occasions? It’s all well and good to throw them on with a tank top and pair of trainers when running errands; however, when it comes to office styling, for example, this task becomes much more difficult. So, with the goal of adding a touch of elegance to my spring leggings outfits in mind, I decided to go on the hunt for the chicest trends to pair with them this season. And for 2026 specifically, it’s all about embracing pieces that feel equally as elevated as they do wearable. Think elegant waisted blazers that will polish up a pair of trending capri pants or cool polo tops that will add interest to even the most classic of black leggings. I'm a firm believer that even the smallest of tweaks can take your leggings outfit from simple to chic. And after a quick browse on my Instagram feed, I’ve found a number of elevated but equally timeless trends to freshen up my leggings. But the best part? I’ve rounded them up for you below.

Keep scrolling to discover the six chic but classic trends that I’ll be styling with my leggings to make them feel fresh for spring 2026.

Style Notes: It’s official: funnel-neck jacket s are back as the it-girl outerwear style of choice for spring 2026. Not only will these elegant silhouettes easily make leggings look polished, but they’ll also help to keep you warm on those chillier spring days that we know all too well here in London.

Style Notes: Rugby-style polo tops first had their resurgence last autumn, and they’re set to go nowhere for spring, helping to add a cool edge to your classic black leggings. Opt for a neutral design for everyday wear, or mix things up with vibrant hues.

This cream and brown iteration will go with everything you own.

A great price for a high quality pair of leggings.

Style Notes: Alaïa’s mesh flats have quickly become a favourite amongst the fashion crowd since their initial release in 2022. Since then, there have been a number of options to choose from on both the luxury and high-street markets, and they’re comfy, easy to wear, and most importantly, look (and feel!) cool with your cropped leggings throughout the warm months.

The chocolate brown makes a nice point of difference from black.

This cream pair will act as great alt to heels throughout the warmer months.

A smarter capri legging that you can dress up more formal occasions.

Style Notes: From pretty satin waist scarves to boho-inspired resin bangles, I’ll be stacking up the statement accessories to add interest to even the most basic of leggings this spring.

Wear on its own or layer with other gold necklaces.

This will look so chic tied around the waist of your leggings.

Style Notes: I've already had many conversations with my fellow editors about the backless trainers and loafers I've been seeing recently, but to make my leggings look polished, it’s low heels in this slip-on style that have my attention.

So many celebs and fashion people own a pair of Maysales.

Stirrup Leggings will always get a yes from me.

Style Notes: I’ve already invested in a number of waisted blazers this year. They’re ideal for making your leggings evening-appropriate, are majorly trending at the moment, and not to mention that they look expensive at any and every price point.

This linen fabrication is perfect for the upcoming warm weather.

An investment pair that you'll keep for many years to come.

As WWW UK’s junior writer, Brittany focuses on creating compelling fashion, shopping and beauty content for site, and works closely with the Managing Editor on recurring columns and franchises. She has a passion for all things fashion, beauty and lifestyle related, but is particularly fond of fragrance, with a personal collection to rival any beauty editor's! Prior to Who What Wear, Brittany worked as the Shopping Assistant at Reach Plc and across a number of publications, including OK!, Notebook, S Mag and The Mirror. In this role, she was responsible for creating on-site beauty and fashion content, compiling shopping grids and filming and editing weekly video content for the brand’s social media account.