URL: https://www.glamour.com/story/90s-embellished-jeans-are-making-a-comeback-this-summer
Scope: denim_and_pants_trends
Title: '90s Embellished Jeans Are Making a Comeback This Summer

The latest unexpected fashion revival? Glitzy glam '90s embellished jeans.

Whether or not you've lived through the decade, or even liked the styles that have become synonymous with the era, you can't ignore how many have become modern trend pieces. Grunge plaid shirts borrowed from the boys, rave-ready boob tubes in neon colors, and minimal column dresses in various tones of greige à la Carolyn Bessette have all had their moment in recent years.

The gamut of 1990s style runs so vast that it can be difficult to define its aesthetics in just a few words. I guess one that feels appropriate is chaos, if you're looking at the decade's fashion holistically. And what better to extract this vibe than possibly the most chaotic piece of all time: embellished jeans.

Worn and adored by the likes of J.Lo, Destiny's Child, Mary J. Blige, and Britney Spears, this piece of clothing perfectly encapsulates the exuberance of the era. The vivacious power of pop music was hitting its peak, and so were the styles that accompanied those major moments. The world was ready to take on excess in its purest form, and a pair of embellished jeans became something of a symbol for this approach. Whether they were spray-painted, threaded with silk ribbons, or bedazzled to every last inch, jeans were suddenly transformed from a timeless staple into a canvas for self-expression.

Sure, there was always something a bit tacky about them—but that was kind of the point. More is more is more… Naturally, stars who were never defined as “minimalists” like Cher and Dolly Parton couldn't get enough.

Fast forward to 2026, and '90s embellished jeans are now being reimagined. While some are still wearing them to express their eclectic personal style, there are even more designers who are delivering refined, elevated takes on the original idea. Studded or sparkling, these new embellished jeans offer a fresh take on the exuberance of the ‘90s. It's like asking, what would a “quiet luxury” version of 1990s embellished jeans look like? It sounds like an oxymoron, but the Bode x Levi's “Rodeo Bodeo” jeans (as seen below) were released in super limited quantity and sold out in minutes, proving there's a major appetite for an elevated take on this retro classic.

A scroll through recent street style images confirms that embellished jeans are in the midst of a resurgence, with some embracing the delicate side of the style and others going for the full buoyancy of the 1990s. If you're intrigued with the idea of introducing embellished jeans into your wardrobe this summer, we've got some style tips for how to navigate the task effortlessly.

When styling embellished jeans, introduce a bit of tailoring into the mix. Wardrobe staples you might usually consider boring suddenly look fresh and new next to a pair of glitzy jeans. Whether it's a white shirt or an oversized blazer, these crisp basics bring out an elegant side of embellished denim that makes it appropriate for more than just a fun night out. Add a heeled mule or ballet flats, and you've got yourself the perfect day-to-night look that'll make you rethink your approach to 90s embellished denim.

Instead of running away from their origin story, why not lean into the 1990s and pair embellished jeans with tops that date from the same era? A strapless top or a white tank top are both solid choices that hint at a throwback era. Just make sure to include at least one or two details that feel undeniably modern in order to avoid looking like you stepped out of a time machine. Your best bet is a modern bag and a pair of shoes that are of-the-moment.

If you feel like a minimalist but still have the urge to dip into this revival, this is how you do it. Let your embellished jeans have their moment in the spotlight and pair them with a knit or cotton basic. Pick pieces that hug closer to the body in order to balance out the volume of the loud pants, especially if you're picking jeans with 3D details like feathers or oversized studs. No jewelry needed, either: These jeans speak for themselves.

A version of this story was previously published in Glamour UK.