URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/trends/easy-spring-2026-fashion-trends
Scope: denim_and_pants_trends
Title: These 5 Spring Trends Are Going to Be Everywhere—Here's How to Easily Pull Them Off Like a Fashion Person

There's nothing I love more as a shopping editor than spotting the trends every season. While there are many that have grabbed the fashion set's attention for spring 2026, there are five in particular that are worthy of highlighting as the new season begins. These trends are making an appearance on It girls from London to Paris, and all have one thing in common, besides being incredibly chic: They are super easy to pull off.

Below, I'm sharing each of these trends and showing you exactly how to get the look. Think of-the-moment color trends, jeans, sandals, shorts, and T-shirts. The featured pieces are effortless and seamlessly come together to create a variety of compliment-worthy outfits you'll be proud to wear all spring long. Keep scrolling to check out each trend and how to style them like a fashion person.

Lace-trim shorts first started popping up last spring, but this year, they are set to take center stage. Pair them with everything from pretty sweaters to classic T-shirts alongside sandals and kitten-heel options.

The pair that every fashion person is coveting.

Flip-flop sandals are back on the streets this season. The versatile sandals can be styled in so many cool ways and come in everything from flat to heeled to wedge styles.

Pink pieces are making an appearance in the fashion set's outfits this season by way of cool sweaters, sneakers, pants, dresses, and more.

Bootcut jeans have made their way back into the hearts of fashion people. While they look great with boots, you'll spot them worn with everything from flip-flop sandals to ballet flats and sneakers.

I have spotted baseball-style raglan T-shirts on my favorite fashion follows and in the new-arrivals sections of my top retailers over the past month. There's no arguing that the tee style adds a cool factor to any look.

As you can see, these tees pair well with jeans.

Jennifer Camp Forbes is a senior shopping editor at Who What Wear, where she has worked in a variety of capacities including creative director and various editor roles. She’s a well-known shopping expert that’s sought out for advice and insight on the latest trends, outfit ideas, and fashion picks thanks to her thoughtful shopping roundups. Jennifer's lifelong interest in fashion led her to intern at Harper’s Bazaar as an undergraduate. Later, while working towards her masters degree in psychological counseling at Columbia University, she founded two digital fashion publications: Le Fashion and Olsens Anonymous. The popularity of both sites grew and after graduation she decided put her plans to become a therapist aside to pursue a career in fashion.