URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/spring-2026-shoe-trends
Scope: footwear_and_shoe_trends
Title: 10 Spring 2026 Shoe Trends to Know & Shop

In a season marked by high-profile runway debuts, anticipation peaked around how newly appointed designers would steer their houses’ accessories: would they honor the classics or reinvent identities? When it came to the spring 2026’s shoe trends, the answer proved to be a mix of both. The season swung like a pendulum from pared-back minimalism to full-throttle maximalism. The best part? The wait is over—spring footwear collections are finally here!

On the minimalist end of the spectrum, styles were refined, and barely-there. Miu Miu, Fendi, and Prada iterated on the slim sneaker silhouette that feels understated yet quietly directional. The shoe’s quickly become a go-to for the street style set—effortlessly woven into daily uniforms as a subtle, trend-forward finishing touch.

Those craving height with a similar sense of understated polish can find it in the glove-like designs of Chanel, Khaite, and Toteme. The foot-hugging sock shapes they put forward offer elegance without excess—proving restraint can be just as powerful as decoration. The look made an especially strong impression when Mattieu Blazy’s first designs hit the market in March. The response was immediate: fashion lovers rushed to get their hands on the collection, and the house’s two-toned glove pump quickly emerged as one of the season’s most coveted styles.

Then came maximalism, unapologetic and joyful. Dries Van Noten, Proenza Schouler, and Dior leaned into drama with bold designs that demanded attention—flourishes befitting their new creative directors. From sequin embellished pumps ready for summer dance floors to sandals adorned with oversized floral appliqués, these styles embraced fantasy and adornment. It was footwear that celebrated the playful side of fashion—expressive and impossible to ignore. Now that spring is finally here, with warmer commutes and flowers in bloom, it feels like exactly like right moment to slip into something with a little personality of its own.

Whether your vibe skews minimal, maximal, or somewhere in between, Vogue highlights the spring/summer 2026 shoe trends to build your outfits around.

A close cousin to the thong sandal, the T-strap is the ultimate barely-there staple. Defined by a slim strap that traces up the foot, it delivers just the right amount of detail—whether in classic black or a subtle pop of color. Flat styles from Polo Ralph Lauren, Jil Sander, and Jennifer Chamandi offer texture and subtle twists through braided leather and bold hues while heeled versions slip seamlessly into occasion dressing.

A fashion month street style favorite, glove-like pumps are a study in modern elegance. Sleek, sculptural, and designed to hug the foot in a barely-there manner, these ladylike silhouettes offer a refined finishing touch. Style them with a pencil skirt and knit, as seen at Tory Burch, or use a pointed-toe slingback to sharpen more relaxed looks. Whether grounded by a sensible block heel or a sharper stiletto, styles from Khaite, Balenciaga, and Stella McCartney effortlessly marry polish and ease.

The footwear equivalent of a fresh start, lean into the spring’s refreshed energy with your pick of the season’s preppy brogues, derby styles, and high-heeled lace-ups. Many of the year’s debut designers experimented with the shape—including Jil Sander, Loewe, Celine, and Dior. In glossy patent leathers; with pointed and square toes, and adorned with house emblems, these build on fall’s modern prep look, offering a sharp and intentional anchor for wardrobe staples like crisp shirting and pleated trousers. On the street style scene, they’ve also become a clever tool for contrast. Look to the white derby as the unexpected counterpoint to a floral dress or Bermuda shorts, for a look that feels knowingly off-beat yet entirely pulled together.

What goes around comes around, and as it relates to footwear, all signs point to a return of the clog. The 1970s staple re-emerges with a fresh identity thanks to crystal embellishments, woven leather, soft suede, and pearly rivets. As seen at Chloé, Bottega Veneta, and Versace, the retro silhouette brings bohemian nostalgia to spring dressing. If you’re not one for the full boho look, let the clog act as a subtle accent—grounding wide-leg jeans or adding texture to a minimalist dress with just the right amount of intrigue.

Maybe you’re mentally already at the beach, ready to dip your toes in the sand. Channel that out-of-office energy into everyday dressing with the laid-back cool of the flip-flop. This season’s iterations are anything but basic—pops of color on a kitten heel or a micro wedge sandals give the summer standby a modern twist. Styling should be equally unfussy: With a crisp white tee and earth-toned denim (one of the season’s key denim trends), it’s your shortcut to effortless cool-girl style. We’ve already seen editors and celebrities alike embrace the summer staple. Hailey Bieber stepped out for date night in a sleek all-black look, finished with a pair of kitten heel thong sandals.

A typical fall favorite, the loafer mule gets a modern look for spring with a foldable, or backless detailing. This interpretation dominated the runways—from Victoria Beckham to Bottega Veneta—offering a no-fuss slip-on style that still feels sophisticated. From square and rounded toes to flat soles and subtle block heels, find a wide range of on-trend iterations on the market, any of which can be seamlessly integrated into your everyday wardrobe.

Spring’s take on fall’s ballet sneaker—a low-top sneaker ballerina hybrid—feels even more refined than its predecessor from last year; we like to think of this sneaker trend as the casual shoe for minimalists: understated, effortless, and endlessly wearable, from morning errands to city strolls. Neutral choices make for an easy go-to, however, animal print or bold, color-forward styles energize even the most pared-back of looks—while still being ultra-functional.

For daily wear, the thick strappy sandal brings just the right amount of attitude while remaining an easy, slip on silhouette. Often spotted on Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen, it’s a shoe that makes a statement without being obvious. For an fool-proof daily uniform, lift a page from the Olsen twins’ style book and pair them with pleated trousers and a breezy poplin shirt, finished with a crossbody bag and aviator sunglasses. Spring outfits don’t get much better.

A relative of the clog, this season’s wedge mule arrives with a sharper, more refined edge. From classic black pairs that highlight a clean, sculptural silhouette to colorful styles that deliver a bold finish, it’s a shoe that quietly transforms a look. Spotted across Paris and Milan during fashion week, it’s the ultimate 9-to-9 staple—offering the height of a heel with all-day comfort, minus the fuss of straps.

Fashion is fun again! Celebrate the return of warm weather with footwear for your inner child. From floral appliqué styles that mirror spring’s blooms to disco ball-like sequins, these statement shoes are made to be noticed. With wedding and event season fast approaching, consider them your dance floor heroes—peeking out beneath a sweeping dress or a sharp matching set. For everyday whimsy, sandal and sneaker iterations bring a spirited touch, delivering impact without sacrificing function.