URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/denim/90s-jeans-trends-spring-2026
Scope: garment_specific_styling
Title: Everyone Knows ’90s Jeans Are the Best Jeans—5 Trends To Wear for Spring 2026

There’s never been a better time to be a product of the ‘90s than right now. Carolyn Bessette Kennedy’s subtly sophisticated ensembles are back in the spotlight, Posh Spice is making her trademark sharp tailoring more accessible than ever through her collaboration with high-street giant Gap, jelly sandals have become the acme of luxury, and Practical Magic is heading back to the big screen with a highly anticipated witchy sequel.

Of course, that’s not even mentioning the breadth of sartorial moments that are staging a comeback. From pencil skirts seen all over the Chanel runway and in the new season collections of defiantly minimal brands like St. Agni to the return of Galliano-for- Dior -esque lace-trim slip dresses, it seems that everything old is new again.

Still, if there was one fashion category that was making the biggest mark this spring, it would certainly have to be denim. Specifically, ‘90s jeans trends are making a roaring return this year, with some of the biggest silhouettes being the ones that were most popular close to three decades ago.

Leading the pack is none other than stovepipe jeans. Sharp, polished and cut close to the body, this elongating trouser style was a favourite of supermodels off duty like Cindy Crawford and Christy Turlington and has now been adopted by contemporary style savants, including Alexa Chung and Kendall Jenner.

Their appeal lies in their innate elegance, architectural nature and versatility in styling. Slip into a pair, and you’ll find any spring jacket —though bonus points are awarded if the piece is more ornate, like the floral embroidered and opera-inspired styles seen at Valentino, Conner Ives and Viktor Gichev—appears more elevated than ever.

Elsewhere across fashion capitals, perennially functional bootcut jeans is piquing interest. Of course, the most obvious companion to your favourite pair of knee-high, heeled leather boots, but they also make a worthy partner to sleek ballet pumps, heeled sandals and satin trousers. And when it’s a style that’s been endorsed by the likes of Kate Moss and Gwyneth Paltrow for years—and now a cornerstone of Bella Hadid and Hailey Bieber’s wardrobe—what’s not to like?

The most surprising ‘90s jeans trend to come back this spring, however, would have to be cuffed jeans. With an exposed hem and ankle-grazing cut, this style is actually the most democratic of the bunch, given its ability to transform any existing pair of jeans into this fashion-forward style, all with a simple fold.

Still, there are so many vintage-inspired shapes to choose from. Better yet, the market is currently saturated with modern versions of these archival styles, meaning that you don’t have to go hunting down Brick Lane’s boutiques for a pair of old school Levi’s to fill this gap. Below, Who What Wear rounds up the 5 key ‘90s jeans trends that are spearheading spring 2026, the styling differences between now and then and the best updated pieces to shop.

Style Notes: Despite originating in the rodeo, these days, you’re more likely to find bootcut jeans in high-end restaurants. With a soft flare and extra sumptuous to the touch, this silhouette benefits from its ability to be dressed up and down with aplomb. Complementary to longline coats, cropped jackets, knitted sweaters and even humble white t-shirts alike, the sleek widening effect will help any outfit appear both considered and casual.

Made from a buttery cotton fabric for incredibly breezy wear.

A slightly elongated fit, making them designed to be paired with trending heeled boots.

For those who have caught Western fever, try pairing your bootcuts with a matching denim top.

Reminiscent of the '60s, slip into this pair and you'll be prepared to emulate your inner Jane Birkin.

Style Notes: If the ‘00s had low-rise, almost-bumster-level jeans and the ‘10s had ultra high-rises that rode up to the bottom of your ribcage, then both the ‘90s and now have mid-rise shapes. Consider this like the Goldilocks of jeans—a placid, low-effort and easy-going style that serves as a happy medium between both these extremes. In fact, you’ll find that the most sought-after denim styles of this decade are actually mid-rises, including Khaite’s beloved Danielle jeans and Agolde’s ‘90s pinch waist style. ( How very apt!)

Reformation's denim is like catnip for cool girls.

Agolde's jeans are some of the best on the market, and these are certainly a best-seller for the brand.

For the price of an average meal in London, this affordable style is such an easy investment.

Style Notes: When it comes to ‘90s jeans trends, you must remember that it’s not always about the specific cut. Indeed, sometimes it comes down to the colour you wear. And if you were to flick through shots of memorable outfits from the period, you’ll often find tastemakers of the time gravitating towards dark washes. From deep blues to saturated indigos, the rich-looking hue can’t help but look far more premium than its lighter counterparts, leading to the wearer coming across as more thoughtful and chic.

With Jéan makes anything-but-boring basics that the world's best dressers can't help but fawn over.

The whiskered accent makes these feel like an archival find.

Barrel-leg jeans are amongst some of the most relaxed trouser styles available.

These will suit oversized button-down shirts and cinch-waist cardigans.

Style Notes: If there’s one denim trend that will continue to dominate, it’s stovepipe jeans. A successor to the cigarette jeans that defined the early part of the decade, this style sits a little more loosely through the thigh and finishes with a punctuated and polished clean-cut hem. Style with mock croc court shoes, simple slingbacks or even a simple ballet flat. Regardless of the choice, the stovepipe shape will suit anything it’s styled with.

You'll find a similar pair in any well-edited wardrobe.

Italian denim is so underrated, and this new season Gucci style brings a glamorous edge to a functional style staple.

Team with the brand's Inez pumps and you'll have an outfit formula you'll constantly turn too.

This Tommy Hilfiger pair combines two of the biggest '90s jeans trends in one accessible style.

Style Notes: From Lila Moss to Emily Ratajkowski and Michaela Coel, the most refined dressers of this day and age have taken to intentionally cuffing their jeans. Though this was a technique embraced by Jennifer Aniston all those years ago, the effect remains the same, leading to an outfit brimming with visual contrast, thanks to the barely-there two-toned effect.

Take the fuss out of styling with this pre-rolled-up pair.

Sydney-born, London-based journalist Ava Gilchrist is Who What Wear UK's SEO Writer. An authority on all things style, celebrity and search related, she produces insightful fashion features, first-person clothing reviews, talent profiles and comprehensive trend reports chronicling the latest happenings from the runways, zeitgeist and red carpet. In her spare time, she can be found trawling vintage boutiques and hunting down the city's best dirty martini.