URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/summer-outfit-formulas-2026
Scope: outfit_formulas_and_styling_recipes
Title: If You're Wondering What Your Most Fashionable Friend Is Wearing This Summer, Look to These 5 Outfit Ideas

Summer is my season. My birthday falls in July, and something about the longer days, warmer temperatures and hive of activity makes me come alive. It's also, without question, my favourite season for getting dressed. There's fewer layers and less practicality to factor in, as well as a burst of colour and maximalist details that make pulling an outfit together feel more fun.

But there's a shift in how we style pieces together for summer that requires some adjusting. Without the layers, it can feel like there's less to work with. There's no shirts under cardigans under jackets under coats. It's usually a one layer situation, maybe two if the weather takes a turn or there's a chill of an evening, which can sometimes leave our outfits feeling a little flat or basic.

This is where a few smart styling hacks come in. When layers aren't doing the heavy lifting, it's about leaning into other tools at our disposal, such as contrasting fabrics, textural details and accessories. Below, I've compiled five outfit formulas that use all of these to create looks that can be relied on throughout the season. Read on to learn more.

Style Notes: Mini dresses don't have to be reserved for eveningwear. When styled correctly they can be the perfect casual wardrobe staple. The key is a good-quality natural fabric such as cotton or linen in a minimal design, allowing you to play slouchier silhouettes like an oversized l eather jacket or cardigan.

Made from a mix of sustainable and zero waste materials.

Style Notes: Summer is the season where your basics really shine. @rachelle.rowlings proves that a simple vest top and wide-leg trousers combo can be elevated to new heights with great accessories. Just add the holy trinity of 90s accessorizing: A chain belt, metallic sandals and tinted sunglasses.

Style Notes: If there's one style I didn't think would make it to the mainstream it was bloomers, but the trend is growing in strenth and I'm happy to be proven wrong. They tap into the lingerie as outerwear trend that resurfaces every summer, and feel like an extension of the lace hem cami trend, with their soft, balloon-shape silhouette and feminine lace detailing. Pair the two together, and you've got a modern take on a romantic look.

A year-round piece that can be layered or worn alone.

These will also look incredible with capri pants.

Style Notes: You can't get more summer coded than a striped shirt, but rather than jeans, try teaming them with white linen trousers instead like @byteganfrances for a lighter off-duty look. Swap your standard ballet flats for a mesh or woven pair and you've got an easy, timeless summer outfit.

Style Notes: Printed co-ords are the key to easy summer dressing. A head-to-toe look has already been created for you, so it's just a matter of accessorizing and finding the perfect throw-on jacket. If your co-ord is form-fitting like @ abimarvel 's, then opt for an oversized jacket like a bomber. Ground the look further with boat shoes, which strike the perfect smart/casual balance and add a preppy touch to stripes.

Both pieces will work hard as seperates in your summer wardrobe.

The lightweight jacket trend is blowing up this season.