URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/vogue-editors-spring-styling-tricks
Scope: outfit_formulas_and_styling_recipes
Title: Vogue Editors Share Their Go-To Spring Styling Tricks

Spring’s spirit of renewal makes itself known in many ways; an excitement mimicked in our wardrobes by the return of color, and relaxed, personality-packed separates. We all know dressing for the season has its own challenges—an unwelcome rain shower, a rogue summer heat wave— which is why we asked Vogue editors to reveal their tricks for outmaneuvering those tricky style moments, while making the most of the season’s sartorial possibilities. (You’ll hear the team talk a lot about texture and layers!) Whether your taste leans minimalist or maximalist, there are plenty of ways to embrace spring’s optimistic energy, which our editors unpack below.

For some, the recent runways offered subtle yet impactful styling cues. “I’ve been obsessed with all of the half-tucked collars,” notes fashion writer Christian Allaire, pointing to the kind of undone detail that shifts a look from polished to personal. Elsewhere, fashion editor Ciarra Lorren Zatorski relies on the power of accessories to elevate her spring looks, finding fresh inspiration in the various pendants seen at Bottega Veneta, Khaite, and Tory Burch.

Spring, of course, presents the perfect opportunity to mix and match seasonal staples: fall’s trench coat with summer’s raffia bag, or a lace-trimmed dress toughened up with a leather jacket you sported in the winter. There are no rules, just options. Our editors show you how, with their go-to spring styling tricks explained, below.

“Every spring, I resist the urge to jump straight into bare layers and instead lean into thin, multi-layer knits that let me adjust as the day warms up. I especially love to layer these thin knits from Zara and pair with a refined skirt from Toteme. It’s a simple formula that feels considered yet still effortless—perfect for unpredictable spring weather.”

“Spring to me is all about contrast: in color—opt for neutrals like cream against rich hues like burgundy and olive—and in fabrics, like silks and leather. Last but not least, opt for contrast in price—mixing high and low ( Cos has elevated silks at an affordable price) to make your wardrobe go far and wide.”

“Spring is the best time to mix the different season’s pieces together. In New York, there are few days where it’s acceptable weather wise to pair a leather jacket with midi skirt for example, or a knit and trousers with flip-flops—sans jacket. It might feel wrong when you’re pulling these pieces together but the sartorial mismatch looks just right. I’ve also been into hanging my sunglasses off of my pendant necklaces for added playfulness. Why not?”

“Spring weather, for all its topsy-turviness, still allows for the most creative expression. On my best days, when it’s sunny and dry, I find that feeling best illustrated in a layered mix of textures. Lightweight leathers, silks (maybe with a hint of lace), and cashmere pieces feel seasonally appropriate in softer silhouettes, with organic touches throughout. It’s the tension between the various seasons that makes an outfit most interesting to me.”

“I always find spring is the best time to layer, layer, layer (with lightweight pieces, of course). When you never quite know what the day might bring, it’s best to be prepared. My go-to uniform starts with black trousers, a crisp white tee, and a navy V-neck sweater, finished with a green trench coat. And always a pair of sunglasses!”

“For those in-between days when the forecast can’t make up its mind, I love bringing a bit of color into my look through jewelry or a patterned silk scarf (great for those chillier moments, too). I also reach for my culottes instead of denim—pairing them with a trench coat, cardigan, or a T-shirt: all spring layers I can shed off as days get warmer.”

“This is technically a fall styling hack, but I am so into it that I want to do it for spring: I’ve been obsessed with all of the half-tucked collars on the runways. With just the tuck of one side, a layered collared shirt suddenly feels fun and fresh. I see myself doing it with sweaters in bright, spring-ready hues.”

“I have a tendency to get overzealous for spring and seem to pull out my summer dresses far before the weather permits so my go-to styling trick is to pair my lightweight flowy dresses with a leather jacket and a silk scarf – a deceptively simple way to add another layer to your outfit. I’m always throwing a silk scarf over the back of my shoulders or even tying them around my head for when the temperature takes that dreaded turn after the sun goes down.”

“Maryam Nassir Zadeh is always on my spring/summer mood board and her pieces are stuff that I wear year after year. Ahead of the warmer days, I got the perfect pair of teal mint opera wedges at her store closing sale this winter which I will be basing all my outfits off of. I love a fun hair accessory for the summer time and she makes some of the best scrunchies that will even make a simple ponytail look good. And if there’s anything the designer has taught me is to layer your sheer clothing with more sheer pieces!”

“Every spring, like clockwork, I rush into my warm weather wardrobe too soon and suffer the consequences. Now, I try not to get too hubristic by adding in a lightweight, sporty jacket. I often pair my late grandfather’s Ralph Lauren Harrington jacket with super femme skirts and sweet flats for a little counterbalance.”

“Spring dressing is always tricky for me—I get way too warm way too easily, even if it’s only 60 degrees, so I really need my layers to be breathable. Recently, I haven’t been able to take off these Gap vintage-cut T-shirts which I can stack on top of each other for added depth without feeling restricted. Pair that with a transitional skirt and a gorpcore jacket and you’re good to go!”

“When in doubt, reach for leather. Nothing levels up a look faster than a leather oversized bomber jackets, fun sandal (or sneaker), and boy shorts with attitude especially when paired with more lightweight “ladylike” pieces. Want to push it further? Add a corded leather pendant necklace, the kind seen at Bottega Veneta, Khaite, and Tory Burch, to amp up the cool factor.”