URL: https://www.byrdie.com/winter-fashion-color-trends-11865629
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 9 Fashion Color Trends for a Winter Style Dopamine Boost

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Winter has greeted us with all its bone-chilling might, reminding us that we could use a style refresh to get through. It's not that we don't already love what's in our closets, but sometimes our rotations could use an upgrade or we need an added layer to keep us warm. Fall was all about '70s-inspired chartreuse, striking '80s purple, vibrant orange, and a mix of more muted modern neutrals like chocolate brown and deep burgundy. As winter roars in, so are bold, rich colors like emerald green and sienna orange, but what reigns most this season are powdery pastels, winter whites, and a couple of dark alternatives to classic black.

Ahead, we're breaking down nine standout winter fashion color trends to try, including fun yet wearable product picks in each hue.

Whether it's due to the recent impact of Wicked: For Good, holiday classics, or the ongoing desire for rich new neutrals, shades of forest and emerald are feeling fresh heading into winter 2026. Although this green hue is bold, it still coordinates well with tons of other colors. Metallics like gold and silver instantly come to mind, but navy, black, charcoal, and cream are equally nice.

Sienna is a balanced mix of brown, orange, and cinnamon, which makes it feel like a calming balm on the color wheel. With its popularity trending upward, you can find this color in everyday basics like the traditional turtleneck and activewear made to keep you warm on the slopes just before you après-ski. This color packs a punch, so it’s best to pair it with black, cream, brown, or as part of a monochromatic look.

Navy made its mark on the 2026 runways, styled in every which way—from minimalistic to preppy to draped in flashy silver embellishments. No matter where you live on the style spectrum, you can swap a black piece or two for navy to give your winter wardrobe a subtle yet noticeable refresh.

Teal feels a little out of place as a winter color trend at first, but if you think about the deep, blue-green jewel tone, it's the ideal way to bring color to the season without being too overpowering. Teal, like navy, runs the gamut in terms of how and where you can wear it: For example, you can find a dress perfect for New Year's Eve adorned with feathers, or a cropped coat to run errands in after pilates class. The possibilities are varied and boundless.

Every year, camel is on our collective winter fashion wishlist. It goes with everything and looks great on all skin tones. For this reason, camel is an ideal color choice for investment pieces you'll wear forever, including well-made basics, wool coats, shearling-lined accessories, shapewear, and boots.

Powder pink provides an instant serotonin boost, especially when winter seems never-ending. From down coats to cashmere, you can layer your closet with soft pastel finds to keep you warm and, of course, stylish. And, one more important mention: This muted shade of pink can act as a neutral. Pair it with almost anything in your closet, from gray to cream, navy, silver, black, mocha, and denim.

The Pinterest Predicts trend report recently dropped, and cool, icy blue is at the top for 2026. Glacier blue feels like winter's quirky "it" hue because it's not made to fade into the background like most cold-weather colors. You can always pair this with darker colors, but for more fun, go for 2000s mall-inspired monochrome (I’m imagining my baby blue Juicy Couture velour tracksuit) or mix and match pinks, whites, and creams to keep the palette light.

Love it or hate it, Cloud Dancer is the Pantone Color of the Year for 2026. And, hey, winter whites are always beautiful. This year, brands are pulling out all the stops, placing faux fur, fluffy adornments, and shearling on everything (so luckily, this creamy hue doesn't have to signal minimalism). Opt for a stunning coat, suit, or anything else your heart desires.

I'm not going to grow tired of chocolate brown and mocha mousse shades any time soon. And it seems I'm not alone, as celebs like Jennifer Lopez and Kim Kardashian are all still rocking it on the red carpet and in the streets. I think it's safe to say that deep brown is vying for the title of the "new black." This is another hue where you can be more thoughtful about the pieces you purchase and invest, as it complements everything.