URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/resort-2026-winter-outfit-ideas
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Winter Outfit Blues? 10 Resort 2026 Trends to Try (That Don’t Require a Wardrobe Overhaul)

There is nothing like the start of the new year to spark fresh styling ideas. Looking to the resort 2026 collections for inspiration, we found plenty of chic ways to rethink winter dressing without having to start our wardrobes from scratch. The overarching memo? Layer with intention and let your outerwear do the heavy lifting.

At Maria McManus and Magda Butrym, we’re reminded of the power of a great coat—notably those of the shearling or faux fur kind, which offer warmth in a polished way from now through the early days of spring. Clever layering tricks came from Tory Burch and Michael Rider at Celine, where neutrals are juxtaposed by flashes vivid color and touches of bold print. Those who can’t wait a minute longer for sunny days and lighter fare should look to Khaite and Chloé, where spring standbys, like floral dresses and Bermuda shorts, arrive early in a winterized way.

Some other styling highlights include the knits on knits seen at Lauren Manoogian, and a matching coat and headscarf moment à la Eudon Choi. Anchoring all these looks are closet staples that work overtime—blazers, trench coats, base layers, and chunky knits you probably already have in rotation.

We’re putting an end to the winter styling blues with these resort-inspired outfits, ahead.

The trick to making leggings feel like pants is to style them as such. Opt for a white button-up instead of a white T-shirt, then add shearling coat for texture and contras. Kitten heeled pumps, a pearl necklace, and a tassel hairpin give it an elegant, Audrey Hepburn-like finish.

Bermudas for winter? Totally chic and doable. It’s all about layering: thick hosiery underneath, over-the-knee boots for warmth, and a fitted turtleneck as a base layer. Style with Chloé’s technical jacket (a functional piece that doesn’t sacrifice polish) and top off with a pillbox hat.

Plaid continues to dominate—take a page from Alexander McQueen, and style with a high-neck top and double double-breasted jacket for a workwear-ready outfit. A statement belt and knee-high boots balance the attitude with refined touches.

Scarves shouldn’t be an afterthought, but a key component of your look. This winter, try matching your headscarf to your coat for a clean look inspired by Eudon Choi. Keep base layers monochromatic and accessorize with yellow-tinted shades and some timeless loafers.

For a play on prints and textures, take cues from Khaite: The New York-based label toughened up a floral dress with a leather shearling coat (a cozy and warm choice that never fails), working in a wildcard by way of leopard print hat.

Give sportswear a sophisticated spin, the Adam Lippes way. Pointy white pumps and a crisp button-down easily elevate relaxed, pull-on pants. Add a shearling coat to stay cozy and complete the look.

Although a bit of color can help winter blues, sticking to neutrals can feel grounding. Take note from Michael Rider’s Celine resort collection, and layer on the neutrals. Pair creamy pleated pants with a white turtleneck and a black button-down, and top off with a beige blazer. Accessorize with white lace-up glove shoes—a footwear trend expected to be everywhere next season.

Monochrome looks don’t have to be so dull—varying texture and proportions in a tonal palette keep things interesting, as demonstrated in Laura Manoogian’s resort collection. Work your way from the inside out: Start with Olivia von Halle cashmere knit set and a pair of cozy socks, then add on Laura Monogian’s robe coat. Finish with a Lisa Yang beanie and Cuyana wrap scarf; a pair of Christen suede clogs grounds the look.

Yes, matching sweatsuits are fashion-approved; it’s just about how you style them. Magda Butrym’s resort collection proved that the secret lies in dressing it up to make it feel intentional. A faux fur coat, a crochet bonnet, and snakeskin extras can turn off-duty ensemble into something impactful.

Brighten up a grey day with inspiration from Tory Burch: Add an unexpected flash of lime green to wardrobe standbys, like a grey V-neck, to create dimension and contrast. Rinse-wash denim and heeled Mary Janes make it a work-appropriately look. Complete the look with a pony hair coat and a simple black belt.

Just because the holiday season is over, it doesn’t mean you have the draw curtain on sequins. Find inspiration in TWP’s resort collection for a more casual approach: Layer a grey long-sleeve tee underneath a grey sweater, throw on a tonal coat, and ground the look with easy clogs—add cashmere socks to stay warm on your commute.