URL: https://www.instyle.com/paris-fashion-week-best-looks-fall-winter-2026-11922699
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: The 90 Best Designer Looks at Paris Fashion Week Fall/Winter 2026 From Chanel, Loewe, and More

Saving the best for last certainly applies to the whirlwind of fashion month, with Paris Fashion Week bringing a climactic end to the four-week extravaganza. Designers delivered knock-out collections with whimsical romance, opulent glamour, and polished pragmatism, taking center stage.

The beauty of nature was a major inspiration for the collections by Matthieu Blazy at Chanel and Jonathan Anderson at Dior, in which models became walking butterflies and water nymphs. Even the runways were earthbound, with moss bearing the strutting weight of models at Hermès and Miu Miu—the latter of which had someone assigned to patching the areas guests stepped on. Elsewhere, Chloé, Dries Van Noten, and Givenchy featured haute horticulture through pixelated prints, fringed florals, and elegant embroideries.

Paris, being the city of lights, offered an abundance of sparkle as well, with Akris, Balmain, and Mugler showing glitzy gold dresses that are sure to become red-carpet favorites. Tom Ford and Saint Laurent's take on tuxedos were equally fabulous options for formal attire. But the Paris shows weren't all about fanciful fashions; there were also plenty of practical pieces that were reinvigorated through stylish layering and tactical textiles.

At Loewe, inflatable puffers and scuba-inspired separates seemed as though they could endure the depths of the ocean, while the layered luxury pieces at Lacoste looked perfect for any weather, and the literal bulletproof pieces at Rick Owens could endure whatever may come, hell or high water.

See ahead for our picks of the 90 best looks that Paris Fashion Week had to offer.

Matthieu Blazy has revitalized the house of Chanel in his short time at the helm. Just this past week, his first collection hit stores, where fashion fans of every ilk clamored to snag a piece...or as many as the store limit would allow. That kind of shift at 115 years old is rare indeed, with many legacy houses losing momentum or shuttering altogether.

With Chanel going through a metamorphosis, it was fitting that Blazy cited caterpillars and butterflies as his inspiration for the Fall/Winter 2026 collections. "There is nothing more comfortable than a caterpillar and nothing more made for love than a butterfly."

This translated into rounded bouclé sets that resembled the striking patterns of a striped caterpillar. Next were clean, cocoon-shaped coats and skirts. These gave way to brilliant eveningwear options that were so fabulously colorful and moved so freely like the wings of a butterfly.

For his fall collection, Jonathan Anderson transformed the Jardin des Tuileries into a majestic pond, complete with floating lilypads and a suspended catwalk. His show opened with a trio of models channeling Edwardian water nymphs wearing shrunken, cropped jackets paired with mini tulle skirts dotted with sequins and swishy trains.

While the house's iconic bar jacket, with its nipped waist and flared skirt, anchored many of the looks, Anderson used wavy ruffles, horsehair braided hems, and metallic-printed brocades to update it. For evening wear, Anderson created complex floral dresses made from the lightest organzas, laces, and feathers that moved as if floating on water. It was a dreamy collection that you could see many Dior devotees diving into.

Outdoor sports like tennis always come with a bit of unpredictability that players must endure, but that’s also what keeps things exciting. That kind of spontaneity is what Lacoste Creative Director, Pelagia Kolotouros, tapped into for her fall collection, citing a 1923 tennis match where the brand’s founder, René Lacoste, played Spain’s top tennis pro, Manuel de Gomar, in a torrential downpour.

Onlookers weathered the storm in trench coats, ponchos, slickers, and rubber boots, which Kolotouros paid homage to with modern pieces that combined performance and polish. She served up rain-proof tracksuits, windbreakers neatly tucked underneath suits and into circle skirts, technical trench coats, and outerwear that was part poncho, part polo. While one can never predict the weather with Kolotouros’s Lacoste pieces, you can at least rest assured that you’ll look good rain or shine.

Leather is known for its durability and strength, but in the hands of Hermès creative director Nadège Vanhée, the material becomes fluid and sensual. For fall, Vanhée had models walk a moss-lined runway that combined the colors of sunrise and sunset with twilight navys, berry purples, forest greens, sunshine yellows, and hints of sky blue.

Covered in leather and thick knits, the models still conveyed a sultry confidence in laser-clean, figure-hugging lines. Vanhée made clever use of zippers, which were fastened to the very top or undone just so. Being Hermés, there were, of course, equestrian details aplenty with jodphors, knee-high riding boots, and quilted pieces that evoked a horse's saddle.

To enter the FW26 Loewe show, guests walked through a castle’s courtyard and into an enormous green structure with a bright yellow floor and plush animals scattered throughout. It became apparent that we had just entered a child's toy chest set against the sternness of legacy, which is very much what Jack McCoulough and Lazaro Hernandez brought to their sophomore runway for Loewe.

The collection served up serious style with plenty of humor. Silicone slip dresses with lace motifs, neon fringe, and fuzzy frocks worn over neon tights and see-through PVC shoes that could've been pulled from a dollhouse. There was also a scuba aesthetic that continued from last season with honkering inflatable coats, cocooning anoraks, and neoprene blazers nipped at the waist that looked like couture life vests and scuba suits.

Inspired by traditional costume and folkloric craft, Chemena Kamali created a collection that was not only beautiful in its delicacy but also incredible for the effort and time that went into it. The collection started with a series of gingham skirts and bouncy smocks, evoking a fanciful take on bohemian dressing. ‘70s-era hippie blouses featured intricate floral embroidery and layers of lightweight lace that were worn with leather trousers and knee-high shearling boots.

For outerwear, boxy check blazers and cape-like ponchos provided chic coverage, and to close out the show, a series of ethereal ruffled gowns embodied the carefree essence of Chloé. At the re-see, I witnessed crowds of women admiring Kamali’s work up close and personal, with one leaning over to me and saying, “magnifique, no?” Indeed, it was.

If there is one thing that this Parisian house has had an outsized influence on its the way women wear suits. When Yves Saint Laurent introduced Le Smoking in 1966, he transformed the notion of femininity, allowing women to exude power and sexiness through sharp, tailored clothing rather than soft, sultry ones.

For Fall 2026, creative director Anthony Vaccarello showcased a series of single- and double-breasted black suits, distinguishable from one another by the slightest shade. Jackets with bold shoulders and defined waists gave them the perfect balance between feminine and masculine.

There were also grand gestures for evening, like silicone-coated sheer dresses in shades of black, burnt orange, and amber, as well as shearling outerwear with dropped waists belted at the hip, acting as a much-needed contrast to the tailored pieces.

Creative Director Antonin Tron made his debut at Balmain with a collection that mined the brand’s reputation of dynamic sensuality and opulent design, while making the clothes look more modern than referential.

A grey concrete venue draped in floor-to-ceiling gauzy fabric created an atmosphere of tension as models walked in glitzy clothes meant for city streets. There was clean-cut tailoring seen in pilot jackets and leather blazers, juxtaposed with jewel-toned draped satin tops and tiger, leopard, and crocodile animal prints encrusted with shiny beads.

While Tron’s debut paid homage to Balmain’s roots, his clothes weren’t stuck in time. I sat by a horde of top-tier clients and their constant “oohs and ahhs” proved to me that Tron's vision will appease many brand loyalists.

In honor of the Year of the Horse and the brand’s signature sense of freedom, guests were treated to a highly choreographed dressage show led by equestrian artist Jean-François Pignon. As white and black horses swirled, rolled, and galloped in unison, models sporting Savile Row-inspired tailoring and '80s silhouettes that nodded to equestrian elegance marched past. Fisherman ribbed jumpers inspired by Stella’s upbringing in Scotland, preppy polos, and denim made from 100% recycled materials brought a bit of chic casualness to the collection.

On a grander scale, there were delicious faux furs and animal textures, and a series of glittery dresses with outsized hoop skirts. The show closed with a model wearing a white tank that read "My Dad Is A Rockstar," which served as a cheeky wink to the designer's father, Paul McCartney, who sat front row next to Oprah Winfrey and Gayle King

Haider Ackermann’s vision for Tom Ford is deceptively minimal at first glance, but upon a closer look, there's a sultriness that's hard to deny.

For Fall/Winter 2026, a stark black-and-white color palette with hints of animal prints, bright hues, and cozy neutrals looked incredibly chic, especially rendered in seductive tailoring. Generously cut trousers hung from skinny belts pulled through a single loop, which made the pants hang from the hip. Clear vinyl coats and skirts worn over button-downs recalled the suits worn by Patrick Bateman in American Psycho. The evening wear section of the collection was equally killer with a set of black gowns that had just the right amount of ruffles and sparkle.

Dressing the modern woman is no easy task, but Sarah Burton always makes it look effortless. Now in her third season at the fashion house, Burton has cemented her vision for Givenchy, encompassing all the sartorial needs of her clientele.

From smart, snazzy suiting for the office to feline frocks for date night and silk jacquard florals that melt into fringe for grander affairs, Burton has imagined a wardrobe that will meet the pragmatic needs of the wearer while also acknowledging the complexity of their lives. After all, the Givenchy customer doesn’t just wear clothes; she breathes life into them.

Embracing the body and the natural side of things was the key message of the fall Miu Miu collection. Models walked down a mossy runway in clothes that had a purity and simplicity that only Miuccia Prada herself could make so captivating.

Nothing looked cumbersome on the fresh-faced models wearing sheer pieces that seemed more sweet than sultry. Moss-like fringe gave heavyweight leather coats an au-natural look while shearling and tweeds brought an earthiness to tailored pieces.

As a reflection of Acne Studios’ 30-year history, Creative Director Jonny Johansson remixed and repurposed many of the brand’s design signatures. Perhaps the most recognizable pieces from the Acne Studios archive are the leather biker and aviator jackets.

Johansson revived the classic 1996 style that started it all, showing fresh iterations that were cropped, shrunken, and rendered in delicious shades like cotton-candy pink and jolly-rancher blue. Plaid blazers were strapped across models’ necks and slung across the body, providing an interesting new take on both tailoring and layering. Outerwear played a big role in the collection, but there were also jewel-toned long-sleeved shirt dresses with cowl necks that broke up the sharp construction of the other looks.

Iconic couple Miles and Betty Davis served as the inspiration for IB Kamara’s Off-White Collection, which was characterized by an attitude of disruptive improvisation throughout. There was the genre-bending aesthetic Kamara has long mastered in his designs and styling, where streetwear and formal attire seamlessly meld, much like a jazz number.

The menswear had a modern ‘70s swagger, with flared denim, knitted shirts, and tailored vests in crushed velvet that mimicked the look of faded denim and corduroy. For the ladies, Kamara tapped the sexiness of Betty’s onstage lingerie outfits, with nylon slips featuring bright neon trim and polka dots, creating rhythm and disruption amid the sharp tailoring and long-legged silhouettes with strong shoulders.

Julian Klausner gave us a lesson in unapologetic style with his fall collection for Dries Van Noten. Duffel coats in luze brocades, contrast-trimmed blazers with sequined crests, and crisp button-down shirts with embroidered cuffs and striped ties gave a worldly update to scholastic dress codes.

For the designer, worldliness and intellectualism go hand in hand. The kaleidoscope of clashing patterns from fantastical florals, warped tartans, and Peruvian and pixelated textiles is essential to the Dries Van Noten DNA, while embracing knowledge of all cultures is the chicest way to live and dress.

More means more at Rabanne, where Julien Dossena rejected the ideals of polished perfection in favor of a more spontaneous approach to dressing. Inspired by the 1940s, Dossena layered ladylike tea dresses, with every print and textile under the sun, with the entirety of one's wardrobe. The dresses were worn over collared blouses, ribbed turtlenecks, fair-isle zip-ups, and lace camisoles. Shearling coats, bombers, and blazers were thrown over the lot. The chain-mail that has become synonymous with the brand also popped up, but was used in a more magpie way, paired with clashing chunky knits.

The Cecilie Bahnsen show broke free of the traditional catwalk format with a trio of models standing in an open space, slowly stretching as the rest walked out together and took refuge against a mirrored wall. Once the music started to blare, the trio became more energetic, and then one by one, the others would walk, or rather, dance out to the center of the space, creating a hoard of both individual and choreographed moves.

This presentation was meant to show how movement brings garments to life and how volume and silhouette, both markers of a Cecilie Bahnsen design, are showcased through motion. The sweet sculptural dresses in Bahnsen’s collection were worn with nylon jackets and sweaters wrapped over the shoulder, with delicate floral details integrated into trims and hardware, balancing function with femininity.

Rick Owens's collection could be worn by an alien race whose home planet was destroyed and is now reestablishing its civilization in an unknown and unwelcoming new world.

These were clothes that went far beyond everyday attire, pushing the boundaries of what clothing can be in terms of material, shape, and volume. Sheaths were made in bulletproof Kevlar, cropped jackets came in heavy but malleable cowhide, hand-tied macrame gowns used 4,000 meters of waxed cord, and gargantuan candy-colored goat hides were worn as towering coats. As eerie as this collection initially looked upon further meditation, they really were the kind of armour-like pieces you’d wear to face the apocalypse—or start a brave new world.

Rock and bohemian glam have always been at the core of the Isabel Marant brand, and for Fall ‘26, things got a bit more raucous. With pulsating strobe lights and a head-banging remix to Britney Spears’s Toxic blaring overhead, models stomped out in clothes that could go straight from the runway and into the nearest nightclub. The clothes were all about masculine-meets-feminine, with indie-sleaze skinny jeans paired with boxy jackets, sailor cable-knit sweaters, and aviator bombers, and sheer little tulle dresses and embroidered bustiers. This 10-minute club scene that Marant created harkened back to the pre-Instagram era, when you could go out and dress with reckless abandon, and that's a world many would kill to go back to.

Miguel Castro Freitas’s second collection for Muglar explored the brand's defining pillars, blending the glamour of the ‘40s and ‘80s with the drama of the far-off future. To convey power, the clothes featured sharp, padded shoulders and cinched waists, along with volume and draping.

The severity of these silhouettes was offset by vibrant shearling, printed silks, metallic leathers, and lamé. Freita’s continued use of militant precision, strong shapes, and decadent trappings to clothe his woman is a welcome evolution of the Mugler brand as it moves away from bodycon catsuits and into a realm where there’s much more to say about the body.

Models dressed in Marie Antoinette-style Rococo finery with a Glastonbury grunge twist at Harris Reed’s festive fall show for Nina Ricci. Embellished ballgowns with swishy petticoats were dressed down with slouchy sweaters, and Jagger-esque long, thin neckerchiefs and neon faux furs gave silk jacquard suits a rock-n-roll vibe. Classic Nina Ricci cheetah and tiger prints were splashed against cyan blues, while all-black outfits were rich in texture and depth for a more contemporary look.

What do erotic underwear and Chaucer’s The Canterbury Tales have in common? The fall Vivienne Westwood collection for one thing. Helmed by the designer's longtime partner Andreas Kronthaler, the Medieval times of England were humorously translated through striped and cinched corset dresses, haphazardly thrown-on separates fit for the chicest of peasants, and an all-white silk finale look, topped off with a conical hat.

Although the clothes were Medieval in inspiration, they were given a fetishistic twist with garter belts, fishnet stockings, and lacy bras. It was a tongue-in-cheek approach to British fashion that has become a hallmark of Vivienne Westwood's designs.

While there was a bounty of romantic, floral, and flowing chiffon goddess gowns to behold at Elie Saab, there were also sexy separates that felt like a sophisticated departure for the brand.

With New York nightlife as a starting point, Saab set out to create a ready-to-wear wardrobe suited for the quick-paced, high-fashion life of a New Yorker at the top of her game. This uptown-meets-downtown aesthetic took form in sculpted tulip skirts, cigarette pants, grey wools, and croc-embossed leather worthy of Trinity from ‘The Matrix’.

Creative Director Pierpaolo Piccioli explored the tension between darkness and light in his second Balenciaga collection, which was half all-black and the other half in vividly colored clothes, with outerwear and eveningwear splitting the difference.

The cocoon coat, one of Cristóbal Balenciaga’s masterpieces, evolved this season, with the rounded shape’s massive volume intact and updated with face-framing collars. Ever the romantic, Piccioli countered the comfort of cocoon coats with goddess gowns that draped over the body with cuts outs here and there to expose just the slightest bit of skin. It’s all about balance when it comes to dark and light, coverage and exposure.

The brooding aesthetic that usually entrenches a McQueen show was given a bit of levity in Seán McGirr’s fall collection. Gone were the cavernous warehouses and fog machines, and in their place was a well-lit salon where the details of romantic Mod-meets-Edwardian garb could really be appreciated.

Silhouettes from the 1960s, such as twee miniskirts and babydoll dresses, were crafted in rich fabrics and Hitchcockian hues. Poetic flourishes kept things from looking heavy with feathery collars, ruffled cuffs, and silk jacquards, and Alexander McQueen’s skull motif made a welcome appearance. A white lace dress featuring what appeared to be a long-sleeved, feathered shrug, which was actually an insanely intricate satin stitch and organza embroidery, proved to be a standout piece.

Images of clean lines and modern minimalism come to mind when thinking of the brand Akris. However, for fall, Creative Director Albert Kriemler explored rich, vibrant textures through a collaboration with Colombian textile artist Olga de Amaral, whose abstract works are known for merging fibers and metallics to create large-scale monuments.

After an informative and inspirational meeting in Bogotá, Kriemler created a gilded collection that resembled wearable recreations of Amaral’s artwork. This concept took shape in the form of brocade coats that encased the body, fringe slashed thinly like tinsel, and square-shaped appliques layered as if they were a mosaic of tiles.

Guests at the Vaquera show were treated to a high-fashion play on a wedding as they sat in wooden pews while a veiled model in a large white orb-shaped garment, holding a bouquet, walked down the aisle as organ pipes played "The Bridal March" overhead.

“Don’t be married to a fixed vision of your future,” read the show notes, which helped contextualize the chaotic cast of characters that marched by in clothes that reflected the fractured ideals of style. Models wore satin pillowcase tops, belted cut-out dresses, and boxy peacoats, topped with mini pillbox hats, twisted takes on the ladies who lunch look, while the latter half of the collection featured “abstracted leather daddies” clad in leather-coated geometric shapes that warped the wearer

Inspired by trailblazing Australian women of the 1920s, the fall Zimmermann collection felt like a liberation, with Creative Director Nicky Zimmermann playing with feminine and masculine silhouettes with carefree abandon.

Lightweight ruffles were worn over roomy trousers, and tailored jumpsuits evoked aviation uniforms with a bit of '70s flair. Zimmermann also referenced the first women’s cricket teams in Australia, with oversized cricket sweaters worn over umbrella-striped skirts that captured the collection's overall feminine expression of utility.

Gabriela Hearst is a fashion industry staple who has long been an advocate for environmentalism and women's and children's rights. With her fall collection, she highlighted the legacy of Eglantyne Jebb, the British social reformer who founded Save the Children. While political messaging through fashion can sometimes look and feel heavy-handed, here, Hearst took a more understated approach by honoring Jebb's legacy through depth, expertise, and a touch of humanity in every detail and garment.

One-of-a-kind handbags and hand-painted leather cowboy boots by artist Almudena Cañedo depicted Jebb's life from childhood to adulthood in twenty-four unique pieces. Elsewhere, knitted pointelle, cashmere macrame, and hand crochet were made by Madres y Artesanas, a collective in La Paz, Bolivia, created to employ and empower women artisans. As models walked, a choral finale was performed by the children of The Langley Schools Music Project.

It was hard not to enter a zen state of mind as silver sand fell from the ceiling and the low hum of music vibrated through the Issey Miyake show space. It felt like the venue became an hourglass of slow-moving time, with models in amorphous clothes walking slowly by.

Fashion shows have become increasingly raucous affairs, so having the time to appreciate the craftsmanship of the pieces made them look even more luxurious. For this season, the body became a canvas for fabrics that took on a life of their own and redefined the shape and volume we're used to seeing being worn.