URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/winter-textures
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: From Cashmere to Corduroy—The Best Winter Textures to Wear Now

One of the joys of winter dressing lies in its many textures and layers—and there’s no time like the present to rediscover those tactile touches that give a cold-weather wardrobe dimension and personality. Get cozy with cable knits and faux fur, play around with plush corduroy, and bring in softness with velvet and brushed cashmere. Whether styled as a singular texture or intermixed for contrast, winter’s range of materials bring depth and a point of interest to even the most classic silhouettes.

Last winter, Vogue’s Camilla Nickerson explored texture in its many forms by playing with color, shape and scale—her inventive styling proof that everyday dressing can be anything but ordinary. A pony hair jacket or a velvet draped skirt offers instant polish, transforming staple silhouettes into statement moments.

Looking ahead to spring/summer 2026, the fascination with texture continues. Bottega Veneta’s fiberglass skirts, Fforme’s swaying fringe, Proenza Schouler’s iridescent jacquards, and Tory Burch’s embroidered dresses bring richesse to the collections; those subtle shimmers or shifts in movement make an outfit feel modern and alive. Below shop this season’s best textured pieces to bring tension—and artful contrast—to your winter wardrobe.

For days when you want to be wrapped in warmth and softness, nothing rivals cashmere. It’s the ultimate cozy indulgence. Look to The Elder Statesman’s striped cashmere cardigan for a playful pop of color, or Guest in Residence’s argyle knit polo for a modern twist on the classic.

Your winter alternative to denim, corduroy is both soft to the touch and endlessly versatile. The ribbed texture brings a hint of nostalgia to new silhouettes that feel refreshingly modern. Go heritage inspired with a caramel trouser paired with a barn jacket for country-coded charm, or elevate your outerwear with Moncler’s plush white puffer.

Leather gets a sleek update this season through color and cut, to instantly desirable effect. Options range from Fforme’s minimalist black blazer to Frame’s patinated flare-leg pants to Stouls’s sculptural draped top in burgundy. For a main character moment, look no further than Nour Hammour’s statement trench coat.

The cable knit is hot toddies and crackling fire in sweater form. For a classic take, reach for J. Crew’s navy blue sweater; for a fresh interpretation, opt for Polo Ralph Lauren’s bomber silhouette. And when comfort calls, Magda Burtrym’s cable knit shorts offer a luxe approach to lounging.

There’s nothing quite like shearling to winterize your wardrobe with teddy bear coziness and charm. Coach’s cream shearling jacket lends ladylike sophistication with its collarless silhouette, while Burberry’s cropped aviator silhouette delivers just the right amount of edge with a dramatic collar.

This holiday season let velvet textures be your answer to festive dressing. Whether you’re going monochrome in a two-piece party set or adding a touch of draped opulence with Dries Van Noten’s embellished skirt, the material is an inherently elegant choice for evening.

From caramel to espresso, brown suede pieces are essential this fall. Proenza Schouler’s midi skirt pairs beautifully with a crisp white button down for the office, while Staud’s longline coat feels right at home with denim and cashmere for weekend strolls.

Channel your inner Margot Tenenbaum and embrace the drama of a faux fur coat this winter. Whether you’re dressing up jeans or preparing for a black-tie affair, a plush coat instantly adds impact and personality. TryToteme’s beige coat or Nili Lotan’s cropped jacket for an effortless dose of glamour.

A subtle yet striking texture, pony hair reframes the familiar in fresh light. Find proof in Co’s brown midi skirt brings, or Nour Hammour’s belted trench. Khaite’s leopard print jacket was featured in coat form in our Fall Shopping List —a true statement style.