URL: https://www.byrdie.com/vacation-fashion-trends-11906364
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 8 Vacation Style Trends Worth Checking a Bag for

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

I don't believe whoever said "when you love what you do, every day feels like vacation." And just so we're on the same page: this is coming from someone who loves what they do!

Sometimes, I get to spend my time on the clock fantasizing about the outfits I—and the cool people I surround myself with, obviously—might wear to hit the resort. It's a treat, yet I will still say... only vacation feels like vacation.

I hope you get to go on one soon! You deserve it. But if nothing is on the calendar (yet), don't worry. You can still have some fun despite the daily grind. Every day might not feel like a vacation (no matter how much you love what you do!), but it can absolutely look like one. For tomorrow or whenever the time comes, here are eight resort and vacation fashion trends you need to know for 2026.

Last year was all about mermaids on the beach, but current trends are calling for more landlocked ethereal beings. You might be taking time off to ground yourself, but the details of these outfits are all sorts of airy fairy. We're looking at drapey silhouettes, a touch of sparkle, and most of all: soft, fluttery hemlines.

Your vacation suit is a two-piece set featuring pants/shorts and a button up. The button up can be short sleeved or long-sleeved, but it has to button. Basically, this is a classic pajama set made to be worn on vacation. It's really comfy, and you can throw on a heel to make it extra OOO-appropriate.

I know, I know— animal print is always trending. But right now it's being paired with super light fabrics like chiffon and deserves a spot in your suitcase as much as anything else. Also, part of the fun is there's no specific animal print on everyone's mind. Go for what you like, the more niche, the better.

Florals were micro for so long. It was cute enough, but now these prints are really blooming. Big, bright florals feel very '90s and can be found in any color combo that suits you. Let's hope this trend just grows and grows and grows.

Nothing gives vacation like a light and airy fabric. And they're not just for your coverups and caftans! Cotton is getting sexy this year, and you'll be seeing a ton of super airy poplin fabrics drifting in the breeze. About the color, though: butter yellow has had its moment and isn't gone for good, but there's something to be said for a crisp white. Especially when you have a little glow to your face after a day in the sun.

Though a flowy kaftan or sequin dress is nice, we're still looking for outfits that say "I'm on vacation." Think a gift shop tee that you can pair with your bikini bottoms or slip skirt. Dolphin Girls are always on island time, so look to them for inspiration even if your typical looks don't fit the bill.

Whether you're wearing a bikini between dips in the pool or the perfect slip dress for dinner, the humble poncho is going to be a mainstay this vacation (and really should be, always). Don't go cable knit here; opt for one that's sheer enough to see the fit peeking out underneath. Perhaps in a color that adds even more to the look?

Dua Lipa, queen of going on vacation, always has a thing or two to teach us about what to wear in the tropics. Some of her best advice this winter came in the form of this ultra-bright silk shirt, which echoed the super-pigmented silk pieces we've seen on other It Girls. Given the nature of the fabric, it's a super sexy vibe—but the bright colors keep things easy breezy, not clubby.