URL: https://www.byrdie.com/winter-color-combinations-11881750
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Winter's Coolest Color Combos Will Shake Up Your Cold Weather Wardrobe

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

If you’re anything like me, your winter wardrobe is less “bright and cheery” and more “all black everything.” When it’s cold and gloomy outside, black or dark neutral ensembles are easy and practical; after all, no one can see the sidewalk slush on the hem of your trousers when they’re the same shade of gray!

But the getting-dressed doldrums are real, especially at the height of winter, and swapping that black cashmere sweater for a vibrant teal or pairing your go-to gray with sweet orchid purple can do wonders to bust you out of those winter blues. Remember how much fun you had playing with MS Paint or Kid Pix as a kid, covering your computer screen in a rainbow of contrasting colors, or collaging with construction paper? Apply that same “anything goes” philosophy to your winter wardrobe and get creative by mixing and matching unexpected hues together.

Give your all-black-everything outfits a break this winter with surprising—and stylish—color combinations for every vibe, from winter weddings to a day at the office.

Hailey Bieber gave teal her blessing when she celebrated Rhode x Sephora in a vivid turquoise satin top from Tom Ford’s fall/winter 1995 Gucci collection. More than 30 years later, the color still sings, especially when paired with equally vibrant yellow! Have fun with your yellow palette, like butter yellow for a more subtle take on the combo or bright canary or lemon yellow for something with real “pow” factor. This is definitely the perfect combination for people who are truly fearless and aren’t scared to pile on the bright colors.

Gray and pinky-purple orchid are a gorgeous pairing that feels elegant and elevated, making it a go-to for in-office days. If you’re devoted to your favorite charcoal coat or blazer, try mixing in an orchid sweater or silky top underneath for a hint of springy sweetness. For something (much, much) bolder, we're big fans of light purple and crimson red.

An earthy matcha green always brings the energy, but it really pops when you pair it with a vivid orangey-red persimmon color. Pinterest spotlighted both shades as trending hues for 2026 as part of their Pinterest Palette, and we particularly love how they look when paired together; it’s a little earthy and a bit Rachel Green in latter seasons of Friends or Lorelai Gilmore, which adds to the cool-girl appeal.

Delicate pale pink looks great with chocolate brown, but it really sings against contemplative, calming jade green—another color Pinterest is loving for 2026. We love this sweet combination for more formal winter and early spring events, but it feels like a breath of fresh air no matter how you wear it. Incorporate these pretty pastels via your outfit or with jewelry.

Just like how a spritz of fresh, citrusy perfume can shift your mood and brighten up your day, injecting a pop of pale lime green into your winter wardrobe can really wake things up. We love it against a backdrop of luscious, rich plum purple, a go-to winter shade if there ever was one. (And no, you won’t look like you’re on the set of Barney, we promise.) This color story is particularly compelling when told via accessories, like a chic lime scarf or a plum-toned clutch.

Baby blue and brown is the Y2K combo that ruled the summer and fall, and it’s definitely still ideal for winter weather. But if you’re bored with brown, try swapping it for a similar shade: rich, luxurious burgundy! Burgundy, wine, and maroon colors ground the ethereal pale blue, while icy blue freshens up those ever-popular winter wine shades. Dip your toe into the combo with a pair of burgundy ballet flats and a pale blue slip dress.