URL: https://www.instyle.com/summer-trends-at-coachella-2026-11949407
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 16 Coachella-Inspired Summer Trends to Cure Your Post-Festival Blues

If you attended Coachella weekend one or have been keeping up from the couch, you know there's a lot to unpack. Bieberchella! Hailey's two-toned slip dress! Karol G making history! The iconic three-day festival draws some of your favorite A-listers and concertgoers from around the globe. What was once considered an "anti-Woodstock" alternative rock gathering has now evolved into one of the most recognizable festivals in the world—and everyone wants in. From brand activations welcoming attendees ( Medicube, Always x Secret, and Magnum Ice Cream were a few standouts) to influencer-heavy side events (yes, Revolve Festival and Rhode World were huge this year) to the obvious mission of catching your favorite artists at every stage, it's practically a sport.

But the main question that comes to mind when attending Coachella: What am I going to wear? I can say first-hand, it's tough to narrow down just three outfits in a place where anything goes. Practicality is also a factor, especially when desert temps can swing from highs of 100 to lows in the 50s. Festival fashion is constantly redefining itself—from the flower crown once being a staple to now modernized boho and western looks taking over. Still, guests love to pull from past eras to recreate standout moments. We luckily still have weekend two to gush over, along with other festivals like Governor's Ball and Lollapalooza on the horizon to plan for. Not a festival person? From crotchet caps and punchy graphic tees to belt layering, there are plenty of trends that are worth carrying into summer for any occasion.

Ahead, discover the 16 summer trends we saw at Coachella 2026 this year.

All hail the First Lady of Coachella! Hailey Bieber stepped out in a vintage 1998 Christian Dior slip dress at Rhode World. The low-key, breezy look helped her to beat the heat and move effortlessly around the festival. And, as she notoriously does, this is sure to spark a trend alert for slip dresses—especially in this yummy two-toned variation.

Fringe has survived the '20s flapper era, '50s rock and roll, and '70s hippie movement—and today, it's certainly made its mark. Take a page out of Tara Yummy's festival book and go for a fringe poncho. She pairs hers with white micro shorts, a tonal headscarf, layered belts, and moto boots for a black-and-white moment.

Coachella guests are nothing if not expressive. Make a statement with a punchy shirt that shows your love for your favorite artists, your go-to motto, or even a cheeky joke. Beliebers certainly didn't miss out on the opportunity this year!

Keep your hat game strong this year. I wore a maroon crochet skull cap to the festival and got so many compliments! I also spotted plenty of beaded variations that added extra oomph to the boho headpiece. Plus, it's the perfect go-to when you're working with desert-dusted, overdue-for-a-wash hair.

Face gems made a sparkling return this year, with festival goers leaning into everything from subtle accents to full-on rhinestone moments. Here, this guest opts for a Zara Larsson-coded (or Euphoria) makeup look with saturated eyes and face-framing stick-on gems. I saw the gems everywhere—from décolletage all the way up to hair—it's the perfect accessory you can get creative with. Plus, brands like Always x Secret conveniently offered on-site activations with stations where attendees could freshen up, rhinestones included!

Cowgirl boots being on this list should come as no surprise. Choosing your festival footwear is key (you'll be logging about 30K steps a day), and you'll want something equal parts trendy and functional. My Frye and Co. cowgirl boots got me through the weekend one, while giving my look a Western edge—and singer Rei Ami's did the same with her printed ensemble.

Becky G embraced baggy jorts this Coachella, and you should too. The Gen-Z beloved staple is perfect for the desert—they give you room to dance around, pair well with endless tops, and give your overall look a laid-back energy.

Winnie Harlow is someone who always has notable festival looks. Take a cue from the model when you layer your belts—whether it be a chunky statement one or a designer bag belt. It's always the more, the merrier in this case.

Want a low-lift way to zhuzh your festival look up? If hats aren't for you, play with hair embellishments! I saw everything from rings in braids, metal clip-ons along braids, and even some feather extensions. The best part? You can mix your metals or use the embellishments to emphasize your look's theme (I had purple touches for Bieber, of course).

The flower crown is being redefined; just take a look at this gold, Grecian-like head crown. This creator paired a pink satin bra top with a white, floral-accented flowy skirt. She also accessorized with belly chains, gold bangles, and a lariat necklace for the ultimate boho-chic aesthetic.

I wore micro shorts two out of the three days and have no regrets. It's the versatile short that can easily be taken from city chic to desert-friendly. Lauren Wolfe cosigned the trend by pairing hers with a fringe halter top, layered belts, and cowgirl boots. That's a triple-trend whammy!

Not only did Justin Bieber and Central Cee sport hoodies during their sets this year, but almost every guest was rocking one at night after the temperatures dropped. In addition to the festival's merchandise, GAP's Hoodie House made its presence at the festival, creating a greater hoodie influx.

Modernized cowgirl-inspired looks were all around—from Miu Miu Drill hats, structured boots, and dangling fringe. Depending on how "yeehaw" you want to get, the key is how you balance it all out. Take your Western look to the next level á la Karrueche Tran. The actress attended Revolve Fest in a cowboy hat, a brown draped top, belted leather micro shorts, strappy heels, and a black bag.

Sometimes it's the details that make the perfect festival outfit. I got into the fun alongside fashion editor Daisy Maldonado by stamping our lower backs on weekend one, and not only was it a convo-sparker, but it gave major early-2000s vibes. Hailey Bieber is also a fan of temporary ink, according to her latest IG post with "Bieberchella" stamped onto her baby's forearm. The best part? It goes away.

Sophia Laforteza channeled sheer elegance in her all-black festival look. The Katseye member kept things casual yet elevated with her see-through, cropped poncho, a black mini shirt, and sleek, black sunnies to top it all off.

Jennie Kim brought a casual, off-duty look to Revolve Fest that I can't stop thinking about. The main character was certainly the XL Quay frames, accompanied by a belted, dark-denim skirt, flip-flops, and a cropped graphic tee.