URL: https://www.instyle.com/matching-lounge-sets-for-travel-summer-2026-11958678
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: I'm Taking 6 Trips This Summer, So I’m Overhauling My Travel Wardrobe With Comfy Matching Lounge Sets From Amazon

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

With a calendar chock-full of weddings, bachelorette parties, and family celebrations, I’ve been ranting about how much traveling I’m doing this summer to anyone who will listen. Between Memorial Day and Labor Day, I’m going on not two, not three, but six trips. So, I can’t think of a better time to refresh my travel wardrobe with loungewear that will keep me cute and comfy on planes, trains, and automobiles. Amazon was my first (and only stop)—the selection of stylish, budget-friendly lounge sets is unparalleled.

From cozy sweats to a fun striped sweater and shorts, I found plenty of pieces to help me transition into my new jet-setting lifestyle. Keep scrolling to shop my picks, starting at just $25.

On sale for less than $30, the Sampeel Two-Piece Set looks way more expensive than it actually is, thanks to the polished feel of the cropped pants. Compared to loungewear with more of a sweats or pajama vibe, you could easily dress this set up with ballet flats or sandals to take you straight from the plane to plans.

That being said, I love a good pair of sweatpants like this classic gray pair and matching long-sleeve top. This shopper-loved set has more than 1,700 perfect ratings and gushing reviews attending to how “ flattering and comfortable ” it is.

I’ve been going through a major stripes phase this spring, so this striped sweater set immediately caught my eye. Featuring an oversized pullover and shorts, it’s great for summer travel or as a laidback everyday outfit. In addition to this blue and green option, I’m eyeing the pink and maroon pairing.

This Prettygarden set is the number one best-selling sweatsuit on Amazon, with more than 3,000 five-star ratings. The half-zip sweatshirt feels chicer than your average hoodie or crewneck. I’m always freezing on airplanes, so I can definitely see myself reaching for this snuggly set.

Another shorts option, the Ekouaer Waffle Knit Lounge Set is an easy outfit to throw on for everything from a coffee run to a roadtrip. I’m partial to this elevated khaki shade, but the baby blue option would be so cute for summer, too.

Last but not least, this biker shorts lounge set is the epitome of sporty chic. Available in 24 colors, it’s a versatile set that would work just as well as separates if you want to wear the oversized tee with jeans or the bike shorts with a hoodie.