URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/swimsuit-trends-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 10 Swimsuit Trends That’ll Make a Splash This Summer

Whether you’re watching the forecast in order to catch the perfect wave or just dying for a day of poolside lounging, we can all agree that the right swimsuit is key to setting your summer vibe. Lucky for us, this season is full of fresh, bold swim trends we can’t wait to take for a dip. From playful prints and bright colors to sleek swimsuits in elevated palettes, there’s a 2026 swim trend for every type of beach or poolgoer.

Swimwear is truly where function meets style, which is why designers love to play with new silhouettes and aesthetics. For the summer of 2026, we’re seeing both minimalist and maximalist styles. Anemos, Toteme, Matteau, and St. Agni have perfected the art of simplicity in earthy colors like lagoon blue, moss green, and classic black. These are no-fuss suits that pack a stylish punch. If that’s not quite your vibe, beachy nostalgia and bright tropicana are trending too: Just take a look at Lido’s sunset gradients or Loewe, whose teal two-piece is a perfect match for its whimsical pineapple pumps. Meanwhile, Chloé, Zimmermann, and Solid & Striped execute the retro summer look flawlessly. And we can’t forget our sporty girls, whose effortlessly cool surfer style you can borrow from with wetsuit-inspired takes (even if you don’t plan on tackling any big waves).

We’ve gathered our favorite swimsuits from every trend this season to inspire your summer shopping. Once you’ve landed on the perfect suit, don’t forget the sandals and cover-up to go with it. Shop all the summer swim trends below.

There’s no gray area when it comes to our love for this trend. Streamlined silhouettes, from bandeau bikinis to classic maillots, are extra chic when outlined with a contrasting trim. The only question is: Will you pick black and white or white and black?

Vintage beach style is back, baby! Chloé, Lisa Marie Fernandez, and Zimmermann all embraced throwback elements in their swim collections this season. Look for high-waist bottoms, retro florals, and embellishments like sailor buttons or mini bows to capture that bombshell-in-Antibes look.

Beachwear has taken a buttery turn toward one of fashion’s favorite shades as of late. Softer than your usual summer brights, this pastel yellow is perfect for basking in the warm glow of the sun—and is sure to make a bronzy tan pop.

In deep watery hues evoking blue lagoons and tranquil oceans, streamlined minimalist one-pieces are equal parts serene, sporty, and sophisticated. You’ll be ready to go from pool to cold plunge to sauna and back again.

Calling all beachcombers! We love eccentric beaded jewelry for summer, so why not bring the same vibe to your bikini? From earthy beads at Sara Cristina and Same to a gold statement shell at Simkhai, it’s all about the adorned swimsuit this season.

No wallflowers here! Artistic and expressive, these blown-up graphics have a painterly edge, offering a modern take on crafty summer style.

Boasting one of swimwear’s most flattering techniques, the gathered swimsuit is trending in creative new iterations. Whether with cutouts and straps (or no straps) or in a wide array of colors, there’s a ruched suit out there sure to capture your attention.

Whether you’re a seasoned surfer, just getting into the sport, or simply a fan of the laid-back ethos, surf-inspired swimwear is for everyone this season. With wetsuit-esque features like neoprene, contrast stitching, and zipper details, you’ll be ready to paddle out or paddle around the pool.

Summer vacay is calling! Don’t hold back on bold swim choices in sunset hues and cabana stripes. Pair with a colorful jelly sandal, and you’re ready to hit the tiki bar.

Everyone needs a black swimsuit in their wardrobe. Not only is it effortlessly chic, but it’s also timeless, foolproof, and endlessly adaptable to any situation, from swimming laps to lounging on the lido deck.