URL: https://www.instyle.com/what-editors-wore-to-coachella-2026-11954566
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: What InStyle Editors Wore to Coachella 2026—Including Fringe, Denim, and Desert Staples

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Bieberchella! Karolchella! Sabchella! Whoever your can’t-stop-thinking-about highlight of Coachella 2026 was, Indio, California’s annual music festival has come and gone. Which means there’s nothing left to do except watch clips of your fave’s performance over and over again (the crimes Justin Bieber committed against me weekend two can never be discussed)—that is, except for planning your outfit for next year.

Some might call it too soon—and hey, I’m with you. But with next year’s Coachella tickets going on sale in a matter of weeks (yes, seriously) before we've even gotten a chance to recover, you can never be too early. And speaking as someone who has attended multiple times, I admit: every single year, I end up in a full spiral 24 hours before takeoff, wondering how I once again planned absolutely nothing. I’d love to say 2027 will be different—new year, new me, right?—but history suggests I’ll still be throwing something together last-minute and hoping for the best.

But don’t be like me! Instead, take advice from my other fashionable InStyle editors and take inspiration from all of our outfits to ensure you’re ready for everything—from dancing the day away in the Yuma tent with no wardrobe mishaps to getting from Mojave to Main Stage without feeling like your feet are going to fall off.

Ahead, four InStyle editors break down exactly what they wore to Coachella 2026—and how they made it through the weekend without a single wardrobe regret. There's fringe, there's vintage pieces, and there's micro shorts aplenty. Consider this your blueprint for getting dressed next year (even if you, like me, wait until the last possible second).

As an L.A. native, some of my favorite memories are driving up to Coachella with my friends. I'm obviously biased, but I truly think there's no other music festival quite like it, and the fashion scene is always one to admire—from the kitschy, ironic shirts to the hyper-curated fits. As I've gotten older, I've done my best to incorporate as much of my personal style as possible to avoid feeling too costume-y.

This time around, that meant packing a vintage 2000s Emilio Pucci gray-and-purple top in the house’s signature swirled print. I paired it with a wide cream belt worn low on my waist and a tiered petticoat skirt from one of my favorite cool girl brands, Prod. I then repurposed a pink floral lace waist scarf from Edikted into a headscarf for added texture and a more desert-ready feel. Other accessories included my beloved Hammitt Meredith bag, which fits everything, and a cutie little green fish necklace from my favorite jewelry brand, Sequin NYC.

On another day, I decided to lean into the boho energy of Coachella by wearing a brown skirt set from Outcast. It included a layered skirt made of stretchy (and comfortable) mesh with soft knit panels, and satisfied the maximalist in me with cascading tiers and beaded fringe. Since the matching bra top was a bit more bare than I'm used to, I decided to offset it ever so slightly with a chunky red beaded necklace. By my side was a dark brown fringe bag from Michael Kors (more is more in my book, sorry Coco Chanel!) and Steve Madden's Rocky Moto Boots in a crochet pattern, which I could not believe were as easy and cushy to walk in as they were!

As a frequent music festival goer, I always love to base my outfits around my everyday style, along with being on theme for the festival's lineup. Since two of my favorite artists were headlining (Sabina & Justin), I wanted to wear something that was an ode to both of them. I have always correlated Sabrina with polka dots, so on Friday, I wore the Spirito Vest Top in White Polka & Declanne Wrap Micro Shorts in Black Polka from Princess Polly.

Cowboy boots are a must in the desert, and instead of committing to one color, I thought it would be fun to wear both my black and white tried-and-true Steve Madden cowboy boots. On Saturday, I took a more relaxed approach and purchased an “I JB” t-shirt from Etsy, micro-low denim shorts from Cotton On, brown cowboy boots passed down to me from my mother's closet in the 90s, and a head scarf to protect my hair from the dusty winds. Sunday is always the unassigned comfy day of the weekend, so I opted for a white Baby Doll Dress from Princess Polly and my favorite Levi’s Jean Jacket to shield me from the frigid temperature drop in the evening.

Festival fashion doesn't fit seamlessly into my personal style, so I took a "wear whatever's fun to me" approach, while prioritizing ease, layers, and practicality. I went with loose, easy pieces like this vintage Dior set, Free People poncho (which I later repurposed as a headscarf), and With Jéan bubble dress; comfortable boots as far from the ground as possible, including ASOS moto boots and Miron Crosby cowboy boots; and printed scarves to shield me from the desert winds and look extra stylish.

While in the desert, I had the opportunity to once again collaborate with viral creator Micky Gordon on a Coachella-themed episode of The Intern. For this shoot date, I wanted to look as close to a Coachella caricature as possible — bandana, sunglasses, and a wrist stacked with VIP passes included. To achieve the look, I turned Benson Boone merch sleeveless and called up my friends at Levi's for some knee-length shorts that I've now genuinely fallen in love with (more of those to come this summer). These custom Timberland boots are also favs and very friendly for a long day of walking and dancing.