URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/transitional-winter-to-spring-outfits-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: In a Style Rut? 7 Effortless and Elevated Outfit Ideas to Wear Now and Throughout Spring

If you live in the UK, you’ll have noticed that the first signs of spring are thankfully beginning to creep in. From bluebells pushing up out of the ground to the odd burst of glorious sunshine, the long days of grey are almost behind us. Now, I must admit, it’s very tempting to get over-excited and dive straight into the floral dresses and strappy sandals we packed away at the end of last summer (and believe me, I’m right there with you). But let's be honest: this is British springtime we’re talking about, and the same days that start with bright blue skies can quickly turn freezing and wet by lunch.

A capsule wardrobe can be a puzzle at the best of times, but this particular transition is feeling pretty challenging. Most days, I'm either bundled up on a chilly morning only to be sweating by the afternoon, or regretting going sans jacket as soon as I step out the door. So, this week, I decided enough was enough. Having flicked through the Who What Wear UK spring/summer 2026 trend report (to help me decipher what to invest in for the next seven months), I turned to some of the most stylish people I know for help: the fashionable people of my social media feeds.

Always one step ahead of the curve, they’ve been serving seriously enviable transitional outfit inspo for a few months already. Whether it's timeless stovepipe jeans teamed with a windbreaker instead of a winter puffer jacket, or classic beige trench coats layered over wide-leg trousers in thicker fabrics for warmth, this spring, functional dressing has never been easier or looked better.

And the best part? They’ve reminded me that spring doesn’t have to be complicated. It's not about purchasing a whole new wardrobe, but reimagining the way you wear it. From clever layers to a few statement pieces, it's easier than ever to nail that "come rain or shine" vibe. Intrigued? Keep reading to see the seven outfits I’ll be leaning on for the winter-to-spring transition in 2026.

Style Notes: Tailored trousers and a beige trench are a timeless pairing that never dates. In 2026, this classic combo is getting a modern facelift. Leaning into a muted colour palette, Amy Lefevre 's choice of a cropped trench and hybrid trouser-skirt lends a contemporary edge to her look, especially when finished with a bakerboy hat, oversized sunglasses and the Ferragamo Hug for good measure.

The belt tie creates a chic peplum finish that I love.

Wear layered over trousers or on its on with ballet flats this spring.

All my favourite fashion people own these Atelier Ninety Five traousers.

The capacious Ferragamo Hug bag quickly became a favourite of It girls everywhere.

Channel Keira Knightley in this corduroy cap.

The perfect finishing touch in every fashion person's wardrobe.

Style Notes: Swapping her chunky knits for a lighter version, Sara Walker’s latest look has that Carolyn Bessette Kennedy energy I’m fully intent on channelling this spring. Oozing ' 90s minimalism with a modern twist, her cream asymmetric wrap skirt, pointed-toe heels and roll neck are impossibly refined, but it's the attention to detail that makes it feel current. From her bug sunnies to the coveted The Row '90s Bag resting on her hip, the whole look is sublime.

Pair with tailored trousers and strappy kitten heels.

M&S is full of expensive-looking heels at the moment.

A timeless classic, I know Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy would have The Row '90s shoulder bag in every colour imaginable.

Style Notes: Proving that spring dressing really comes down to some well-placed layers, this leather-trench ensemble jumped to the top of my inspiration list. Keeping her base classic with straight-leg jeans, a white T-shirt and black ballet flats, Marianne Smyth builds from the ground up. Adding visual interest through her structured longline leather trench and blue knitwear, she creates a look which is visually appealing and weather-appropriate.

This is slightly The Matrix, but in all the best ways.

If you want to invest in a great pair of jeans, look to Agolde.

Style Notes: It's not quite time to pack away your knits just yet, but spring is the perfect excuse to start having a little more fun with how you style them. Take Hannah’s look, for example. She gives a classic white cable-knit jumper a fresh, seasonal spin by pairing it with fluid satin trousers and butter-yellow ruched flats. A small switch, but it allows her tan suede bag to truly shine.

With Nothing Underneath is a London It-girl favourite.

This is such a good price for woven satin trousers.

I recently tried these on and can attest, they're as comfortable as they look.

A timeless classic, if your in the market to invest in a watch their are few as superior as the Cartier Tank.

The best way to block out the eye bags on an early morning coffee run.

Style Notes: Francesca Saffari’s look is easily one of my personal favourites. Tapping into both a dopamine-dressing mood and the funnel-neck windbreaker trend, this standout piece proves that just one well-placed swap can set your outfit right for spring. In a refreshingly simple combo of washed-blue jeans and black ruched loafers, she uses her jacket to add a 2026 feel.

Pair your puddle jeans with loafers or thong sandals on a warmer day.

A simple belt can make such a difference to your casual looks.

If you're after a high-quality woven-leather bag, look no further than Dragon Diffusion.

Style Notes: If you needed a reminder of just how good embroidered blouses are, this is your sign. With a romantic, inherently Bohemian feel, Chloe Kath-Butler uses a stone trench in a similar hue and popular Frye boots to spruce up her winter staples. Using thick, dark-wash jeans to keep things cold-weather appropriate, it's definitely a look I’ll be tapping into on a chiller day.

If you're tired of a typical tan trench, why not try this cream iteration instead?

You can pair these with everything from a tiered maxi skirt to a floral dress this spring.

Crafted from recycled silver, the chunky By Pariah twin rings are perfect for stacking.

Stacked earrings or one of this years biggest trends.

Style Notes: Classic yet trendy, timeless but with an It-girl edge, Aimee Song’s latest look is a masterclass in transitional dressing. Opting for brown suede barrel-leg trousers, distressed brown loafers, a vibrant yellow polo and a tan barn jacket, she uses complementary shades to create a cohesive yet punchy look.

With a padded underlay, this is perfect for any unforeseen cold weather.

The elongated straps! The sculptural silhouette! I'm sold.

If you've been holding onto a pair of Tom Ford Icon sunnies from the 2010s, here's your sign to dust them off.

Imani-Nia Francis-Tsolaki is Junior Fashion Editor at Who What Wear UK, where she expertly navigates Gen-Z-aligned editorial content and brand try-ons to unearth the most worthwhile pieces, while valiantly resisting the urge to add every single one to her basket.

At Who What Wear, Imani is committed to uncovering cool new brands to share with the WWW UK readership, and finding gems that make shopping accessible (and fun) for everyone.