URL: https://semisustainable.substack.com/p/the-2026-fashion-trend-forecast
Scope: wardrobe_staples_capsule_and_shopping_guides
Title: Semi-Sustainable

2025 was a year of astounding change in fashion from creative director musical chairs to luxury’s turning tides to the further mainstreaming of resale. 2026 will mark the first steps into a new era that moves on from the oversized, ultra-minimalist aesthetic and viral microtrends that defined the first half of the decade.

Personal style as the trend is slowly pushing the definition of a “fashion person” away from a closet full of the latest and greatest to a mindful state where wardrobes are well-thought out and items are purchased for longevity. The concept of personal style has gained steam over the past two years through a prism of societal influences: personal expression, financial constraints, algorithmic escape, exclusivity, and environmental drivers.

This isn’t to say that impulse buys, fleeting trends, and luxury labels as a signifier of taste are going away anytime soon. But the person who carefully curates and really lives in their clothing will have the upper hand in 2026, making their looks stand out in a sea of the same-same by rewearing favorites, prioritizing unique vintage finds, and showcasing distinctive styling.

This type of wardrobe takes time and dedication to create, which will lend a secondary layer of trustworthiness on top of fashion credibility. Each item highlights how the curator makes a small brand, investment piece, or secondhand item their own versus relying on the ubiquitous item of the season or turning to fast fashion to fulfill every trend.

While the mindfully curated closet won’t be the overriding sentiment in 2026, we’ll see a noticeable increase in social feeds as we progress further into the third wave of sustainable fashion creators. By 2030 mindful curation will become a key attitude in the way we sartorially present ourselves to the world, whether rooted in sustainable values, the desire to be a one-of-one innovator in the fashion landscape, or to avoid being viewed as out of touch.