URL: https://fashionunited.com/news/business
Scope: fashion_business_market_and_consumer_behavior
Title: Latest Articles in Business

Just days after the closure of its UK and Ireland store estate, the French operator of Claire’s European business has announced plans to potentially bring the jewellery chain back to the region’s high streets. Julien Jarjoura, who oversees the company’s 240 stores in Spain, France, Austria, and Portugal, told the Guardian that he was aiming to...

Australian sun protection apparel brand Solbari, known for its UPF 50+ clothing, sun hats and accessories, has launched a wholesale business in the US and appointed Grayson Davis as head of sales in the region to lead its retail growth strategy. In a statement, Melbourne-founded Solbari said the move marks an expansion beyond its...

Saks Global is cutting its corporate headcount by 16 percent amid the continued rollout of a restructuring plan designed to optimise the luxury retailer’s footprint. Company officials confirmed the news to WWD, which reported that around 640 workers will be impacted, reflecting 4 percent of Saks Global’s total workforce. The layoffs will not...

Paris, France – Footwear retailer André, acquired in January, is preparing for a "future expansion phase", according to a court ruling seen by AFP. This decision comes despite a challenging consumer environment and the erosion of its workforce and store portfolio over the years. According to the takeover bid, André was placed into receivership...

The US outdoor and lifestyle group Columbia Sportswear Company has reported financial results for the first quarter ended May 1, 2026, exceeding internal guidance for both net sales and profitability. The performance was supported by early wholesale shipments for the spring/summer 2026 season and robust demand across the US and Europe. Net sales...

Madrid – Spanish fashion multinational Adolfo Domínguez has reported its results for the close of its 2025 fiscal year. The period, which ended on February 28, 2026, saw the company complete the year on a positive note for both sales and turnover. The company is currently celebrating its 50th anniversary. According to the data presented by the...

Oil markets have surged to multi-year highs as tensions between the US and Iran intensify, with Brent crude climbing above 120 dollars per barrel. According to Bloomberg, prices briefly spiked by more than 7 percent to over 126 dollars amid fears of prolonged disruption in the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world’s most critical oil transit...

Consolidated turnover for BasicNet (K-Way, Woolrich, Superga) grew by 35.1 percent in the first quarter. Aggregate sales of products bearing the group's brands, developed worldwide by the network, amounted to 299.1 million euros. This compares to 268.8 million euros in the first three months of the previous financial year, an increase of 11.3...

Canadian apparel manufacturer Gildan Activewear Inc. has reported record net sales for the first quarter ended March 29, 2026. The results represent the first full fiscal period following the consolidation of HanesBrands into the group’s financial statements. Net sales from continuing operations reached 1.17 billion dollars, representing a 63.8...

Chinese luxury fashion firm Lanvin Group announced its financial results for the full-year 2025 (FY2025) on April 30, 2026, reporting revenue of 240 million euros. This represents an 18% decrease compared to the previous year, a period the company described as a challenging global luxury market environment. The performance reflected...

Prada Group, which owns the brands Prada, Miu Miu, Church's, Car Shoe, Versace, Marchesi 1824, and Luna Rossa, has achieved positive results in the first quarter of 2026. Net revenues reached 1.43 billion euros, a 14 percent increase year-over-year (YoY) (+3 percent organic). Retail sales amounted to 1.25 billion euros, up 10 percent YoY (+1...

US footwear group Crocs has upwardly revised its annual financial forecast after reporting a robust start to the 2026 fiscal year. The company delivered enterprise revenue of 921 million dollars for the first quarter ending March 31, 2026, supported by strong performance in direct-to-consumer (DTC) channels across its brand portfolio. Despite a...