URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/heeled-sandal-outfits
Scope: footwear_and_shoe_trends
Title: It’s Sandal Season! How Fashion’s Chicest Insiders Wear Sleek Heeled Pairs

It’s the most wonderful time of year—sandal season is here! Consider this your cue to officially stow away your sturdy lug soles and shearling-lined pairs in favor of sleek, open-toe styles fit for the long-awaited warm weather. While strappy flat sandals remain forever timeless, we’re shifting our focus this season to sleek heeled versions—a little outfit elevation never hurt anyone, after all.

Luckily, fashion’s chicest insiders are offering plenty of inspiration, styling their go-to heeled sandals with everything from tailored trousers and suede outerwear—looking at you, Hailey Bieber —to polished midi skirts and crisp button-ups.

Bieber’s often spotted in Toteme’s classic black heeled-thong sandals, styling hers with sleek neutrals-forward looks (and one of The Row’s latest It bags in tow). Equally versatile (and street style–approved) are Emme Parsons’s lizard-effect heeled sandals. Perfect for soirée season or a festive dinner out, we love the idea of pairing the sharp silhouette with Simkhai’s white poplin dress, Nili Lotan’s cherry-red utility jacket for a pop of color, and a Loewe x Paula Ibiza raffia bag.

Hollywood isn’t the only fan of the heeled sandal— Vogue’s own editors are just as devoted. Whether it’s Vogue’s head of editorial content, Chloe Malle, in caramel-colored Khaite heels; Vogue Shopping’s market director, Madeline Fass, in Jil Sander’s red-hot cage sandals; or Kia Goosby at Vanity Fair in The Row’s dainty pair, the summer staple has earned a permanent place in our editors’ wardrobes.

Below, discover our favorite heeled sandals for spring and summer 2026—and how to wear them in style.

Vogue Shopping’s fashion market director, Madeline Fass’s signature spring styling trick? A red-hot heeled sandal from Jil Sander. Her other city-chic essentials include a go-to gray sweater, dark-wash denim, and Khaite’s python-effect day clutch. A woven leather belt and sleek tortoiseshell sunnies help complete the outfit.

Hailey Bieber is back in her warm-weather shoe rotation—starting off strong with Toteme’s classic black heeled-thong sandals. She styles them with her signature staples: a sumptuous suede jacket, relaxed trousers, and black tote. A pair of YSL sunnies and Donni’s baby tank round out the look—now yours, too.

Curious what Vogue’s head of editorial content, Chloe Malle, is shopping right now? Look no further than these strappy heeled sandals from Khaite. Like Malle, style yours with a crisp striped button-up, a denim midi skirt, and—when spring temperatures dip—a cozy cashmere cardigan. A petite printed pouch and statement earrings add a playful, polished touch—never too precious.

So sleek, you might not even see them! Like Vogue’s shopping director, Talia Abbas, we favor a barely-there sandal for summer-in-the-city, like this pair from Madewell. Whether you’re crossing Fifth Avenue or hailing a cab downtown, they add a polished finish to any look. Take a cue from Abbas and style yours with a lace slip skirt, a simple white tee, and a cobalt-blue sweater draped casually over your shoulders. Khaite’s studded bag and tortoiseshell sunnies add a dose of cool city edge.

Not all heeled sandals need to be thin and dainty. Follow Yumi Shin’s lead and opt for Lemaire’s chunky heeled sandals in butter yellow. Style them with Prada’s statement skirt and, for a cool layered look, Cos’s navy polo sweater worn over Zara’s thin white long-sleeve tee. Create a cinched waist with Déhanche’s woven leather belt, finished with a Savette charm.

These neutral heeled sandals from The Row require minimal effort while delivering maximum impact—just look to Vanity Fair ’s senior market editor, Kia Goosby for proof. Style it similarly with a roomy flannel shirt, swishy satin midi skirt, and a printed red silk scarf tied at the waist for a Parisian-inspired finish. A woven leather tote and black sunnies keep the look grounded for everyday ease.

These Emme Parsons strappy heeled sandals can do it all. For a chic daytime look, style yours with Simkhai’s white poplin dress, Nili Lotan’s colorful utility jacket, and Loewe x Paula Ibiza’s festive raffia tote. Add Chan Luu’s shell necklace and a crochet headscarf from Miu Miu to carry the look straight into summer.

Channel your inner ’90s muse with these knotted sandals from Jude. Continue the pared-back theme with black capri pants, an oversized linen blazer, and Miu Miu’s Vivant bag in green for a vibrant dose of color. Accessories from Tory Burch and Dries Van Noten feel especially Kate Moss–inspired.

Wedges are back and better than ever for summer 2026, with this burgundy pair from Aeyde at the top of our wish list. Work them into your rotation alongside Tove’s twisted white tee, St. Agni’s clean-lined maxi skirt, and Arma’s slouchy leather jacket. Savette’s east-west tote keeps the minimalist mood on track, as does Lié Studio’s embellished cord necklace.

Beach-bound? Staud’s vibrant yellow heeled sandals are a must-pack. Style them with Sara Cristina’s nautical-print dress, Tohum’s statement shell necklace, and—for a touch of bohemian spirit—Kallmeyer’s beaded cap. Bembien’s tassel-adorned handbag and Jennifer Behr’s silver cuff bring an elevated finish to evenings under tropical stars.

Flip-flops are a forever summer staple, but these Gucci heeled-thong sandals go the extra fashion mile. In a rich chocolate hue, style the pair with Dôen’s lace-trim slip skirt, a sporty striped tee from Prada, and Lemaire’s lightweight summer trench. Add a touch of flair with Jacquemus’s polka-dot silk scarf and Alex Mill’s wear-with-everything raffia tote.