URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/runway/fashion-week-trends-fall-winter-2026
Scope: materials_textures_and_fabric_trends
Title: 10 Trends Set to Define Fall 2026 Fashion

Fall/winter 2026 was the season we saw creative directors settle into their respective fashion houses. With the major shake-ups across the industry last year, we tracked the many debut collections that presented a mix of reinvented house codes and shocking new ideas. Now that designers have a season (or more) under their belts, their visions have crystallized, and we have a clearer idea of where they are taking the brands in the near and distant future. The strongest collections had a world-building point of view that coupled thoughtful, compelling design with originality.

In the current fashion climate, brands are challenged with retaining existing VICs while attracting a new generation of shoppers—a tall order that requires a delicate balance of new and old, innovative and familiar. We saw this unfold with couture-like items styled for the everyday, investment-worthy modern heirlooms, and timeless silhouettes crafted with precision, and these themes unfolded among the biggest trends at fashion month. The very best shows are garnering excitement for collectors across every generation, giving people a reason to become emotionally invested in brands and, perhaps, get ready to be first in line to shop when the pieces drop in stores. Ahead, read more on the 10 fall/winter 2026 trends that are dominating fashion.

As designers grapple with how to create investment-worthy pieces in a fashion environment where prices have risen so high, many are turning to designs that have an heirloom quality. On the runways at brands including Dior, Valentino, and Conner Ives, we observed rich brocade and jacquard fabric, intricate embroidery, and beaded details that lend a high-quality, handcrafted feel to the garments. These are pieces that instantly feel like special collector's items meant to be passed down from generation to generation. That might mean an embellished coat or a sophisticated gown from Kallmeyer, The Row, or Dries Van Noten. It could translate to unique estate jewelry or a modern equivalent from designers such as Jessica McCormack and LaPietra. Regardless of the item, each piece feels exclusive, significant, and worthy of holding on to.

"Within each look, we discover multitudes." This is a line taken from Prada's F/W 26 show notes, which describe the Italian brand's intentions behind its idea to only have 15 models walk, each taking to the runway a total of four times in slightly tweaked ensembles from the ones they wore before. A piece was removed every round, unveiling a fresh outfit underneath. For Prada, layering was the backbone of the collection, but Miuccia Prada and Raf Simons weren't the only creatives this season to focus on the styling method. At Tom Ford, The Row, and Victoria Beckham, stacked garments also played pivotal roles. What made their work particularly special in 2026, though, wasn't just the layering. It was the fabrics they used, with translucent materials—from clear PVC to structured mesh—offering a window into the outfit hiding beneath it. Finally, we have a new take on sheer, naked dressing designed for those with modesty in mind. It's a way to explore transparency in a safe-for-work way.

Whereas some designers took a loud approach to dressing for the fall, others—like Pieter Mulier, who showed his final collection for Alaïa in Paris—and Veronica Leoni at Calvin Klein, opted to take a simpler route, sticking with pared-back, unadorned materials and timeless, no-frills silhouettes. "Minimal, pure, essential," Mulier wrote in the show notes, a farewell to the house. "Stripped back, reduced to the very essence of Alaïa." For the designer, this strategy was all about avoiding distraction. "Purity, simplicity," Miu Miu 's show notes also stated, with Prada leaning on materials like cotton poplin, linen, and washed double cashmere for fall 2026 and using them to craft classic shirts and skirts that felt true to the human experience. The designs were real and wearable yet intimate. Similarly stark ensembles debuted at Prada, Jil Sander, Gucci, and The Row, proving once and for all that, sometimes, less is more.

Quiet luxury was, if nothing else, a commercial win. Our collective lean into minimalist silhouettes and neutral tones made it possible for brands that perhaps can't mass-produce intricate fashion items to get into the latest trends with, for lack of a better word, basic trousers, coats, and dresses suddenly aligning with the runway cycle. Alas, this probably also led to the death of quiet luxury. Those who invest in fashion want their pieces to feel romantic and one-of-a-kind and, therefore, worth spending thousands of dollars on. That's where this fall/winter 2026 trend comes in. A handful of designers turned away from hushed tones and practical fits in favor of pieces that felt borderline frivolous and grandiose à la Marie Antoinette. These aren't pieces you're going to wear from one place to another or purchase for their versatile nature. They're shamelessly focused on a very elite level of dressing that calls for ruffles, lace, bows, and draping that requires hours and the very best hands in fashion to perfect. Gone are the days of luxury clothes that can hide in the shadows. For fall, the craft and handiwork behind Valentino's, Chanel's, Givenchy's, and Dior's latest curations will be put on public display.

In today's world, there's only so much we can handle before needing an escape, and the fall runways provided just that—a portal into another world where our normal standards for what can be considered beautiful doesn't exist and a having a wildness and even animalistic quality about what we wear isn't shunned. It's accepted as the new norm. Patchwork shearling gave an untamed, almost feral feel to coats and dresses at Calvin Klein and Diotima. At Schiaparelli, Daniel Roseberry combined printed bottoms made to look like fur with actual fur coats and added a pair of pony-hair pumps with hand-sculpted cat heads in lieu of rounded or pointed toes. "No pets were harmed in the making of these; they're rendered from resin and felt," the brand explains in the show notes. Perhaps we've been reading too many fantasy novels, but this season's collections had that same impact. It's a way to turn off our current reality and enter a realm where our problems don't exist, at least for a limited time.

Tuxedo dressing has been rising in fashion. Off the runways, we've been seeing the return of cummerbunds and dress shirts, but any question about its future prevalence was confirmed on the fall/winter 2026 runways. Anthony Vaccarello paid homage to Yves Saint Laurent's iconic Le Smoking tuxedo suit, which originally debuted in 1966. Vaccarello's version incorporated a tuxedo jacket finished with satin lapels that was worn without a shirt beneath and styled with cocktail earrings and a sultry smoky eye. The Le Smoking theme rippled across other shows as well beyond just the tuxedo jacket. At The Row, a dress shirt was worn with a collar clip and silk trousers. At Khaite and McQueen, bow ties were tied at the neck. At Michael Kors and Altuzarra, we saw eveningwear versions, including satin skirts topped with cummerbunds and gowns with tuxedo details.

Proportion play on the runways can practically feel like whiplash—upsized and relaxed one season, then skinny and shrunken the next, then back again. Over the past few years, the shifts in tailoring have been a swinging pendulum, but for fall/winter 2026, there is no question that we'll be returning to very fitted looks. Michael Rider's skinny flared pants were the talk of Paris Fashion Week, and they will undoubtedly land on the must-buy list next season. At Marc Jacobs and Tod's, button-down shirts and column skirts recalled the body-skimming silhouettes of the early 2000s. At Gucci, Demna showcased updated versions of the Tom Ford for Gucci suiting that remains iconic today. At Prada and Jil Sander, coats were so fitted they almost looked a size too small. We're about to see oversize proportions shrink away as precisely fitted styles take over yet again.

These days, it feels like everything is expensive—to the point that even people who once wore couture and couture-adjacent pieces from head to toe now need to supplement. The runways this season just provided them with plenty of inspiration to do so without sacrificing style or impact. The key is to pair your most intricate, artful items with a simple basic, adding a sense of wearability and versatility to your investments. At Chanel, delicately beaded skirt suits were seen styled with white tees, and at Celine, a red sequin-covered dress got paired down with a timeless trench coat. Jeans got paired with a hand-embroidered silk top at Erdem and a ruffled Bar Jacket at Dior. Meanwhile, at The Row and Givenchy, no-nonsense black trousers were made special by elaborate partners, from a ruffled blazer to a top crafted only out of golf ball–sized gemstones.

Each season typically sees a color make its way to the top of fashion's proverbial food chain, dominating all others across the entirety of the month. For fall/winter 2026, the grumblings of a coming regal-purple reign that started on the spring runways spiraled into an ever-present roar, with practically every show featuring the vibrant shade in some way, shape, or form. At Celine, Rider accented a purple leather trench coat with red accessories, a color combination that's already become beloved by daring dressers this year. Meanwhile, most designers leaned all the way in, debuting monochromatic ensembles in the hue. At Mugler, even a model's bag was purple—a perfect finishing touch for her matching gabardine skirt suit. Chloé, Ferragamo, Loewe, and Tory Burch rounded out our list of favorite purple looks from the season.

Skirt suits made a major return last season on the spring/summer 2026 runways, but designers are doubling down on them for fall/winter 2026. There wasn't one standout silhouette but rather a range of coordinating skirt sets. Tom Ford paired a collarless jacket designed with utility pockets alongside a sleek pencil skirt cinched with a leather belt at the waist. The Row showcased a skirt suit designed from checked wool with fur trim. N21 debuted a version consisting of a peplum jacket with a portrait collar and ballooning sleeves. At Gucci and Celine, body-skimming shapes tapped into the shrunken proportions we saw across fashion month. At Hermès, a canary-yellow colorway offered an eye-catching take on the skirt suit. Whether you lean into a pared-back style or a maximalist version, this may be one of the most versatile and wearable trends on the runway.

Eliza Huber is currently the Associate Editorial Director at Who What Wear. She joined the company in 2021 as a fashion editor after starting her career as a writer at Refinery29, where she worked for four years. During her time at WWW, she launched Go Sports, the publication's sports vertical, and published four (and counting) quarterly issues tied to the WNBA, Formula One, and more. She also created two franchises, Let's Get a Room and Ways to Wear; profiled Dakota Fanning, Diane Kruger, Katie Holmes, Gracie Abrams, and Sabrina Carpenter for WWW's monthly cover features; and reported on new seasonal trends, up-and-coming designers, and celebrity style.