URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/courtside-style-outfits
Scope: occasion_and_lifestyle_dressing
Title: An Outfit Guide to Courtside Style

Fashion’s love affair with the WNBA is well documented, from Caitlin Clark ’s ongoing relationship with Prada (including her front-row seat at the most recent runway in Milan) to Coach becoming the organization’s first-ever handbag partner.

Tunnel walks have also evolved into highly anticipated style moments—just look to players like Angel Reese, who consistently steps out in covetable pregame looks. And now on the heels of the 2026 draft (and all those impeccable red-carpet looks ), it’s time to secure two things: your tickets and your courtside outfit.

Thanks to regular basketball-game attendees like Kendall Jenner, Rihanna, and Hailey Bieber, courtside style is a fashion category unto itself. Unlike other sports such as tennis or golf, where you’re contending with natural elements, attending a game inside an arena allows for more flexibility in attire. You can skew casual with a hoodie and metallic sneakers or slip into a sporty dress and low heels for a look that transitions easily to pre- or postgame dinner. Whatever route you take, just don’t forget to incorporate your team’s colors.

Whether you’re a New York Liberty fan or have already pledged your allegiance to the Las Vegas Aces, a game-ready look is a great way to kick things off. (Reminder: The season officially begins at tip-off on May 8.) Ahead, five outfits to re-create for the 2026 WNBA season—or any other basketball game you’re planning to attend.

Layer up the sporty stripes with a long-sleeve, slouchy tee tucked into Tibi’s jersey shorts. When paired with a sleek mesh bag and wedge sandals, the look feels both polished and right at home in the arena.

There’s something timelessly cool and confident about a varsity jacket. Pop this versatile Aimé Leon Dore option over a polo shirt for a preppy-inspired pairing. Classic denim and loafers tie it all together.

If you plan to attend several games, investing in a versatile sporty dress will go a long way. This fit-and-flare pick from Tory Sport looks especially well suited for the arena when styled with a striped sweater and colorful cap.

Tuck this WNBA logo tee into a pair of baggy white jeans for a warm-weather pairing you might find yourself wearing even outside the arena. Black accessories like a belt and leather flip-flops offer a subtle contrast, and a pair of luxury spectacles will make sure you don’t miss a three-pointer.

Let this cherry red hoodie take the lead by styling it with white-on-white separates (or pick your team’s color for subtle representation). On the accessory front, Khaite’s sporty satchel and silver sneakers cement the athletic influence while keeping the look elevated.