URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/three-styles-at-work
Scope: occasion_and_lifestyle_dressing
Title: 3 Styles at Work: How to Wear Earth-Toned Denim

An essential isn’t essential unless it’s versatile. It should pull its weight, appeal to any personality, and fit in seamlessly with various aesthetics. To put this theory to the test, we’ve asked three Vogue editors to style the same piece, each in their own way.

This spring, classic denim has gotten a considered upgrade. Imagined in earthy tones —beige, brown, and everything in-between—the new hue feels like a quiet reset. Already adopted by celebrities and editors alike (Zoë Kravitz was recently spotted wearing a pair strolling through New York City), the neutral tone slips seamlessly into your existing wardrobe. Editors are turning to Mother, Citizens of Humanity, and Ossou to anchor their looks against an otherwise airy spring palette. The tone proves its versatility, effortlessly paired with tonal browns, playful pops of color, or a classic white tee. Could this be your new go-to denim style?

“I could easily run through all the tiny details that make Ossou’s jeans special, but what keeps me coming back for more is what drew me in in the first place—the wash. The earthy brown shade is as versatile as any blue jean, pairing well with both neutrals and brights, but feels more considered on. You can tell a lot of care and thought have put into the construction, too—from the sharp front creases to the jewel-like button and zip closures.”

“The denim you need for a perfectly balanced fit - high-rise and straight through the leg, with just enough structure to feel polished without being stiff. Brown denim breaks you out of the blue-jean autopilot; it’s unexpected but still neutral, so your outfit feels intentional without getting complicated.”

“Colored denim is back! The way I am easing into this trend is with a muted pair from Citizens of Humanity. I styled them with a classic striped button-down, and accessorized it with a floral brooch and punchy red sandals.”

At Vogue, everyone has a distinct point of view, but each editor was drawn to Comme Si’s crimson shirt to kick off the series. Over the last few seasons, red has steadily taken over the runways and street style, offering an easy way to punch up an outfit with a bold flash of color. Worn as a shirt, thrown effortless over a matching set, or tied at the waist, it proves its ability to be more than one thing. See how each editor made it their own.

“For someone that rarely wears color, a crisp red shirt has become a staple for me to inject some vibrancy into my wardrobe. Always paired with black, of course, and sometimes khaki or taupe to add interest.”

“I love how versatile this Comme Si top is. I can wear it as intended or knot it at the waist as a little styling trick to make the whole look more interesting.”

“I normally don’t wear bright colors, as everyone in the office jokingly knows, but I really liked the subtle sheen to the Comme Si shirt. The material made it feel more like a neutral rather than something glaringly bright, and so I styled it like I would have any other black, gray, or white—casually and open over my usual monochrome outfit for a brisk spring day.”