URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/spring-summer-transitional-outfits-2026
Scope: outfit_formulas_and_styling_recipes
Title: Not Spring, Not Summer—These 6 Outfits Were Made for Wearing Between Seasons

Welcome to the in-between. It's that funny period between spring and summer that, whilst officially, technically, still spring, places us on the roller-coaster that is UK weather. Some days are scorching, other days you regret packing away your winter coat, and in between it all, you still need to figure out what to wear. If you're already caught up on the spring-to-summer transitional trends the most fashionable are wearing, it's time to learn how to put them into play.

These spring-to-summer transitional outfits are a delicate balance of clothes and accessories that could easily fit in either season, and they're so simple to edit based on what lies in store for the day.

I know better than to go all in on a summer capsule wardrobe too soon. Although we've had a lovely stint of weather recently, I know how quickly it can change. Having a wardrobe that reflects these ups and downs is crucial this time of year. Some of the key pieces that make this feel easier are trench coats —both short and longer lengths—and trousers that can easily oscillate between spring and summer, such as Bermuda shorts and capris.

Once you have a select few pieces in place, you can layer for outfits that are both functional and interesting too. That could be a cardigan tied around your shoulders for warmth and looks, or a more summery ensemble with sandals, all worn beneath a heavier jacket. With the following outfits, you'll always get this mixture just right.

Keep scrolling for 5 different outfits that all feel exceptionally fit for spring-to-summer wear in 2026.

Style Notes: A trench coat is a long standing spring staple and a very helpful outerwear style to have on hand into summer. When the weather calls for lighter layers (but still layers nonetheless) it's the perfect piece to throw over top of cooler outfits like capris and T-shirts. Add heeled sandals, and you'll instantly feel elegant and put together.

This dark khaki is a fun alternative to the usual trench-coat beige.

Capris are in-between weather approved and work so well for both spring and summer.

These are made of sleek leather and have a comfortable insole.

Style Notes: One of the most reliable outfit formulas for those days that feel not quite like spring or summer is a matching set. A long-sleeve button-down and linen shorts are chic but cool enough for the warmer temperatures. Pair this with loafers for a look that's laid-back but still well-styled. A structured handbag can also punctuate the outfit.

With Nothing Underneath does an excellent button-down shirt and even has shorts to match for an ideal summer co-ord.

Linen is a breathable fabric for warm-weather wear, and this matching pair works perfectly with any top or blouse.

This shoe is the best of both worlds. Easy, elegant and sophisticated.

Style Notes: A button-down, white jeans and ballet flats work for nearly any season. It's simply a matter of changing up the fabrics and colours you choose to make it feel more fitting for spring and summer (and the stretch in between). As athlete and fashion creator Marilyn Nwawulor-Kazemaks shows in her outfit, white denim, a pink shirt and burgundy flats feel instantly seasonal, compared to say, dark-wash denim and suede flats.

You can never go wrong with pastels in spring, or any time of year, really.

The pockets on the front of these jeans feel slightly nautical-inspired (and therefore very summery).

A maroon shoe is versatile but a little different from your usual black and brown flats.

Style Notes: As we get closer to summer, a cropped trench is the epitome of a transitional garment. Functional, stylish and cooler than their longer counterparts, this jacket is pretty paired with Bermuda shorts and heeled sandals. You could also swap the heels for trainers for something a touch more casual.

The relaxed silhouette of this trench coat is amazing. The belt is a great detail, too.

A longer short is one of my favourite capsule wardrobe staples for summer. They look so polished.

A simple heeled flip-flop with a '90s appeal, which is very much trending.

Style Notes: Bubble hems are back this year, and I love the shape and texture they bring to an outfit, whether in a fun skirt or as an off-the-shoulder top. In skirt form, it can be balanced with a minimal T-shirt and flip-flops and easily adapted depending on what the day brings, whether you swap the tee for a vest or add a cardigan.

A boxy T-shirt is a great buy for the spring-to-summer period. Wear it with jeans, Bermuda shorts, capris or skirts.

Wear this with T-shirts, knit vests, denim tops or crop tops.

Adding an unexpected pop of red is one of my favourite ways to incorporate colour.

Melissa Epifano Varley is a writer and editor who covers fashion, home, and beauty. She has over seven years of experience and has written for Forbes, InStyle, People, The Zoe Report, and Byrdie. She has also served as the editor-in-chief of Real Homes and lifestyle editor at The Spruce and ran her own wide-fit footwear line for over three years. She graduated a year early from the University of Oregon with a Bachelor of Science in journalism. Melissa has won the PPA Next Gen Award and currently covers fashion, trend, and shopping content for Who What Wear. She’s passionate about helping readers discover their own sense of style in their wardrobes and homes—whether that’s through products, trends, or concepts that they deeply resonate with and makes them feel their best. She’s originally from the U.S. but is now based in Bath where she spends her free time reading books, creatively writing, and taking part in more esoteric endeavours like reiki and tarot.