URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/outfit-ideas-2026
Scope: outfit_formulas_and_styling_recipes
Title: My 2026 Style Goal Is "Trendy, But Not Too Trendy"—These 7 Outfits Are Up First

"Trendy, but not too trendy" is my 2026 style motto. What do I mean by that? Well, over the years my style has gotten significantly more refined and pared-back. Whereas once I was chasing after every trend, now I've settled into an aesthetic that works for me, and it's all about clean lines, neutral tones, and elegant, sophisticated staples. That's not to say I don't still love a good trend piece every now and again (I am a fashion editor reporting on the latest, after all), but it simply means that I'm much pickier when it comes to which trends I actually buy into.

My basis for deciding comes down to the trends that I can easily incorporate into my daily style, and that usually means the ones that lean elegant and minimalist. To explain what I mean when I say my 2026 style is "trendy, but not too trendy," I've pulled together a collection of outfit ideas that get my point across. These are the looks that I've saved to my mood board and will be trying out at the first chance I get in the new year. They're also a great way for me to track which trend pieces I'd actually wear versus the ones I'm better off skipping. Without further ado, here are the seven simple but chic outfits I'll be trying first in 2026, from cape coats with dark denim to semi-sheer skirts and elegant scarves.

Capes may not be the newest trend, but they've been sticking around for a while, and I'm finally ready to invest in one. I love how a pair of dark-wash jeans and sleek kitten-heel boots makes the cape feel more modern and less stuffy for an elegant everyday vibe, and that's the first combination I'll be trying with one.

Faux fur scarves are one winter accessory that's inescapable at the moment. While my Instagram is showing me countless ways to style one, I love the simplicity and timelessness of draping one over the shoulder of a wool coat and tucking it into a skinny belt. It's an easy way to dress up my classic tailored coats for the winter.

Since I don't wear much color, my go-to non-black hues are cream and ivory, so I was immediately drawn to this monochrome look with a sweater and balloon pants. The focal point? A gorgeous tassel pendant necklace, one of the chicest jewelry trends of the moment.

When Miuccia Prada emerged to take a bow after the Prada spring/summer 2026 show in Milan, she came out from backstage wearing a simple car coat with a printed triangle scarf tied over the shoulders. The internet (myself included) were abuzz with the simple but wildly chic styling idea, and ever since I've had my mind set on re-creating it.

I had just bought this wool bucket hat from COS a few days prior, and then I came across this chic outfit with a similar style, and I love how the all-black vibe lets the bucket hat silhouette really pop. I'd re-create it with any black wool coat and a skinny belt for some extra dimension.

Nineties minimalism will always have a strong influence on my style, and going into 2026, I love the contrast between something more conservative like a turtleneck knit paired with something that shows a bit more skin like a semi-sheer skirt.

I'm always on the hunt for ways to make my black trousers feel new, and I was immediately drawn to this outfit that pairs a hyper-elegant silk blouse with relaxed trousers and pumps. In this case, I think her top is actually a dress, but it can easily be re-created with any drapey scarf or gathered top.

Anna is an NYC-based senior fashion editor who has been a member of the Who What Wear team for over eight years, having begun her career in L.A. at brands like Michael Kors and A.L.C. As an editor, she has earned a reputation for her coverage of breaking trends, emerging brands, luxury shopping curations, fashion features, and more. Anna has penned a number Who What Wear cover interviews, including Megan Fox, Julia Garner, and Lilly Collins. She also leads the site’s emerging travel vertical that highlights all things travel and lifestyle through a fashion-person lens.