URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/fall-2026-runway-styling-tricks
Scope: outfit_formulas_and_styling_recipes
Title: 13 Fall 2026 Styling Tricks to Try This Spring

With the arrival of every new collection comes a fresh wave of ideas, trends, and styling inspiration. It’s the reset that makes a new season feel exciting. The beauty of looking to the runways for ideas is that they’re filled with subtle yet impactful takeaways that you can translate into your wardrobe well before they hit the streets and flood your feed.

This spring, we’re looking to the fall collections for easy styling tricks that make a big difference in a transitional wardrobe—a tonal color story, a popped collar, or any other intentionally undone detail that makes an outfit feel unique and thoughtful.

At Bottega Veneta and Loewe, collars were casually half-tucked and slightly askew, proving that the smallest detail can make a big impact. At Prada, looks were multidimensional; models would shed layers as they walked the runway, revealing new variations each look. At The Row and Miu Miu, transparent layering was incorporated into the collections, showing just how elegant and wearable the effect can be. Color-blocking picked up where we left off in spring, where at Celine, a tonal story of pink and red offered a modern approach.

Take these—and more—fall 2026 styling ideas into real life now; they are chic and easy to recreate, ideal for the transitional season.

At Bottega, multiple looks were styled with either a half tucked, or a fully concealed collar. This spring, try the styling trick yourself. Pair a button-down underneath a V-neck sweater, adding on an oversized blazer, mini skirt, and derby shoes, then finish the look with Bottega Veneta’s 1998 bag.

Try your hand at two trends in one with this look. Here, Prada makes a strong case for both sheer layering and patterned hosiery, each adding a bit of personality to your wardrobe.

Celine’s take on color blocking leaned fully into a tonal dressing, layering red and pink hues to create dimension. Go all in and finish the look with red sunglasses, just as seen on the runway.

As seen at Dior’s fall 2026 show, style a cropped blazer with a peplum top and offset it with light-wash denim. Complete the look with statement pumps, a chic evening clutch, and simple pearl drop earrings—it’s a look that works both day and night.

Polo Ralph Lauren’s lookbooks are always a source of styling inspiration. For this transitional period, try a full white outfit with a leather jacket, a horseshoe belt, black strappy sandals—and yes, socks. Add a western hat for an extra touch of flair.

Doubling up on tops continues to make for interesting looks. We love this take from Chanel, comprised of two V-neck vests in contrasting colors and a low-rise pleated skirt. Add a brooch and burgundy accessories for an elevated color story.

Style your white poplin shirt backwards to make the classic staple feel fresh again. Pair it with rinse-wash denim and add simple details like a statement earring, silk scarf, and thin belt to complete the look. A white button-down never has to feel boring.

Stella McCartney confirms sporty transitional jackets are here to stay for another season. Style yours with stirrup pants (another trend we expected to make a comeback this fall), a pointed glove heel, and belt. Extra bonus points if you tuck your jacket in as a top.

A trick for the minimalists: Layer an asymmetrical top underneath a cropped jacket for movement and visual intrigue.

As seen at The Row, pair a white sleeveless button-down underneath a sheer top and style with red trousers. Simple, but statement-making. Add on a cord necklace for a final flourish.

Zankov knows how to make an eclectic pairing look sharp. Layer striped polos atop an embellished skirt, then add a bandana scarf. Finish with silver accessories.

Another way to wear sheer right now comes courtesy of Valentino, where a gossamer and lace skirt is paired with a leather jacket worn as a top. Lavender hosiery underneath keeps the whole idea from looking too naked. Finish with shield sunglasses and a modern pearl necklace.

Leggings under skirts are quietly making a return, and Roksanda’s look is a polished take on the Y2K trend. The trick is to opt for a longer, midi length—and keeping the top streamlined. (A sculptural blazer or shirt is best here.) Thong heeled sandals give it the height it needs, while remaining seasonally appropriate.