URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/statement-trends-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 10 Bold Ways to Update Your Spring 2026 Style

Spring always calls for a bit of a refresh, and sartorially speaking, a few wardrobe updates that feel intentional. My approach is two-fold: stripping out what I haven’t worn in a while, and then building on what’s left. I’ve always relied on accessories to elevate and add interest to my look—lately, brooches have been a game-changer for my style. (There’s been plenty of inspiration these past few seasons, from the red carpet to the spring 2026 runways.) I love how they can instantly sharpen a blazer or shirt, or personalize a coat. Silk scarves, too, have long been part of my repertoire, and this season’s shows have inspired me to rethink their styling entirely. Why not wear them as a shirt, or a pareo over pants? Anything goes!

Besides accessories, color and print are another great way to express your style. The spring runways were filled with ideas that speak to an instinctive way of dressing—we’re breaking down the strongest and boldest themes for you to try, below.

Like a breath of fresh air for your shoe collection, mint and turquoise footwear is having a moment. Cool-toned seafoam shades offer a lift to spring and summer dressing without feeling too loud. As seen at Chanel, Prada, and Dior, the color works almost like a neutral—you can style them with a tonal navy blue look, blush pinks, or complementary shades of yellow and green.

There is something elegant about fringe when it’s done with restraint. Whether it appears at the hem of silk trousers, a fluid shirt, or a skirt with a swishy trim, fringe brings movement, ease, and a little drama to the everyday.

Polka dots are making a noticeable return, but this season they feel less sweet and more graphic. Khaite and Dries Van Noten enlarged theirs, while Tory Burch took a more delicate approach with stipples on its sheer drop-waist dress.

If there’s one pair of sunglasses to invest in this season, it’s a wraparound frame. Miu Miu, Saint Laurent, Tory Burch, and Loewe all made a case for the retrofuturistic shape, taking it from off-duty into the everyday.

From oversized blooms to crystal embellishment, these are kinds of shoes you build your outfit around. They’re the star of the show and great party conversation starter. Let your mood guide your choice.

If there was one key accessory to wear this, it’s the brooch—pulled out of the jewelry box and fastened however you see fit. Its charm lies in its versatility: pin it to the lapel of a blazer, clipped onto a crispy poplin shirt, secured to a silk scarf, or used it to add interest to a simple knit.

A statement skirt does all the talking—the beauty here is that you don’t need to overthink the rest of your outfit. Pair it with a simple cardigan, button-up, or even a classic white tee, and keep shoes equally streamlined.

Color is back and isn’t going anywhere anytime soon. This season, we saw color wave make a splash on the runways, especially in bold primary shades, pieced together for a full look—look to Jil Sander, Versace, and Loewe for examples. The trick is to pair two to three strong colors together and keep the accessories neutral.

Much like the statement skirt, a strong top doesn’t just make the outfit—it can also be the outfit. Look for interesting shapes and details to achieve this effect—whether that’s an asymmetric construction or novelty fabric (hello, feathers!).

No longer just tied around the neck or looped onto a handbag, the humble scarf has proved its versatility—graduating from supporting role to main character. As seen at Hermès, Celine, Kallmeyer, Dries Van Noten, and Maria McManus, you can fashion it as a top, layer it over a blazer, wear it as a pareo over trousers, or let it drape loosely to the back for an elegant, undone effect.