URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/early-summer-outfit-ideas-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 5 Chic Early-Summer Outfits Stylish Dressers Will Be Wearing on Repeat

After months of heavy knits and big coats, spring was a welcome change with its lighter layers and softer colour palettes. It’s the sort of seasonal shift that makes getting dressed exciting again and has rekindled my love for my wardrobe. I will admit, though, I may have jumped the gun slightly and have already stowed away my winter wardrobe, despite the unpredictability of English weather.

While it may feel premature, I am already looking forward towards summer and have been mentally planning my outfits. Summer brings with it a much more relaxed approach to dressing. Think linens, floaty dresses, poplin skirts and strappy sandals, and now that we're in April, they all finally feel within reaching distance.

Scroll on for five early summer outfit ideas for 2026 that I’ve bookmarked already.

Style Notes: A white shirt is one of those core capsule pieces that everyone has in their wardrobe that is one of the ultimate transeasonal pieces. When it comes to summer, I tend to opt for a linen shirt instead of cotton. Paired with a denim short gives it that more casual fit.

For summer, opt for a linen fabric or a relaxed style instead of anything too structured.

Citizens of Humanity is one of my favourite brands for denim.

M&S is one of my favourite high-street stores at the moment.

A cord pendant necklace is still so on trend right now.

Style Notes: Palazzo trousers are something I want to add to my wardrobe this year and Marianne has sold me on this With Nothing Underneath pair. While they are more of a casual piece with their elasticated waist, they still feel elevated. Paired with a tank top and suede sandals, it’s such an effortlessly stylish look.

Our all time favourite shirt brand has branched out into trousers and these are at the top of my wishlist.

Suede sandals were such a big trend last year and I predict this year to follow suit.

A raffia bucket bag is such a cute addition to a summer outfit.

Style Notes: This is one of those outfits that you can just throw on but look instantly put-together and sleek. Opting for soft pastel tones keep the look light and fresh while still feeling on trend, and adding contrasting bright jewellery and a simple flip flop brings it altogether.

I audibly gasped when I saw this dress, it looks like a designer piece.

Layered charm necklaces bring such a fun element to your look.

I love how Rebecca has brought so many colours into her look, but they all work so well together.

To really top it off, go all out with a statement pair of sunglasses too.

Style Notes: A pretty white top paired with blue jeans is one of my favourite timeless combos for summer. There are so many styles to opt for too, from broderie to lace or strappy, it’s such a versatile combination that can be worn time and time again but look different each time.

If this isn't the definition of a pretty white top then I don't know what is.

A woven ballet flat and summer go hand-in-hand.

Style Notes: While many people steer away from black in summer, for me, it’s one of my most worn colours. There’s something so inherently stylish about an all black look, and a maxi dress is one of those effortless styles that can easily take you from day-to-night. Pair with black accessories to keep it all-black, or bring pops of colour in that way.

A Dôen dress is a piece I'll be adding to my wardrobe this year.

I've finally done it and bought myself a Dragon Diffusion bag after swooning over one for over a year.

Le Specs is my go-to brand for luxe looking sunglasses at an affordable price.

Chloe Gallacher is a freelance fashion editor based in Essex. After graduating from university with a degree in Journalism, she worked for print publications including Hello! Fashion and You Magazine and has ten years of experience within the fashion industry. She was responsible for trend forecasting, runway reports, curating elevated and engaging shopping pages and articles, travel features, producing still-life shoots and working on the set of editorial and cover shoots, alongside commercial shoots for brands such as Next, Radley, Wyse and Wacoal.