URL: https://www.byrdie.com/innovative-2026-fashion-trends-11880473
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: In a World of Nostalgia, These 5 Fashion Trends Feel Actually Fresh

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

If I had a dollar for every time I heard the phrase, “fashion is cyclical,” I’d be writing this story from a swanky hotel room in The Bahamas. But the cliché has a point: Countless trends that our parents (and their parents) wore decades ago have resurfaced, sometimes even multiple times. Perhaps your mother passed down her brooch collection when the accessory returned with a vengeance earlier this year, or maybe you’ve rummaged through your grandmother’s closet for a blazer with sculptural shoulder pads. For many, there’s something so satisfying about a trend steeped in history—regardless of whether you have an archival piece to pull or embrace a modern iteration.

Still, as a fashion writer who spends 40-plus hours a week tracking trends, I couldn’t help but wonder: Have we reached peak nostalgia? If you, too, are longing for fresh, innovative designs, scroll ahead to learn more about our growing craving to finally move forward, complete with five trends poised to define what’s next in fashion.

Make no mistake: The fashion industry’s love affair with nostalgia is nothing new. In fact, much of the 2020s has been all about throwback dressing. When the pandemic set in, the masses sought comfort—and familiarity—in early aughts staples like Juicy Couture tracksuits and Ugg boots, embracing pieces that felt reassuring during a time when leaving the house was mainly off the table. That comfort opened the floodgates to an ongoing wave of Y2K revivals.

Over the past few years, early aughts favorites like low-rise jeans, whale tails (gasps), and crop tops have crept back into the fashion zeitgeist. The 2000s also gave us a group of fashion darlings whose influence still lingers today: Slogan tees à la Paris Hilton and Britney Spears are back, as are Hervé Léger’s curve-hugging bandage dresses once favored by Victoria Beckham and Kim Kardashian. On screen, Sex and the City character Carrie Bradshaw’s outfits have remained a source of inspiration, especially as the And Just Like That… revival aired (though nothing beats the original era).

@kyliejenner / @ayoedebiri / Instagram / Courtesy of Brand / Getty Images / Byrdie

Given the current climate, fashion’s unwavering appetite for nostalgia makes sense. When the world becomes increasingly scary and unpredictable, there’s a certain solace in looking back to, well, better times. This has only sped up the trend cycle, as millennials and Gen Z alike have revisited motifs from the 2010s. Case in point: Peplum tops were a through line on the F/W '25 runways, featured in collections from Ashlyn, Bally, and Erdem. Blame it on the indie sleaze comeback, but combat boots have also reentered the chat.

Meanwhile, on recent red carpets, celebrities have been embracing archival fashion. At the 2025 Golden Globe Awards, Kylie Jenner slipped into a silver metal mesh dress—once worn by Elizabeth Hurley—from Versace’s S/S '99 collection, while Ariana Grande channeled Audrey Hepburn in a 1966 Givenchy haute couture gown. At The Actor Awards presented by SAG-AFTRA, Keke Palmer threw it back to the ’80s, taking to the red carpet in a 1985 Chanel black velvet gown. And even when stars aren’t in actual vintage pieces, the references remain: Last January, Ayo Edebiri paid homage to Julia Roberts’s iconic gray suit from the 1990 Golden Globes Awards.

@chanelofficial / @louisvuitton / Instagram / Courtesy of Brand / Getty Images / Byrdie

Not to speak for the entire industry, but I, for one, am starting to feel fatigued by archival fashion. Throwback pieces can be fun, but after seasons (upon seasons) of nostalgia at the forefront, I’ve been craving some newness in the industry. And it doesn’t seem like I’m the only one feeling this way.

The enthusiasm around the creative director musical chairs this past year has been palpable. To recap: We saw debut collections from designers including—but far from limited to—Matthieu Blazy (Chanel), Louise Trotter (Bottega Veneta), Jonathan Anderson (Dior), Simone Bellotti (Jil Sander), Sarah Burton (Givenchy), and Pierpaolo Piccioli (Balenciaga). This new guard of designers is honoring house codes while shaking things up, which has made fashion feel exciting again.

Though celebrities are still flocking to vintage numbers, custom creations are quietly becoming the new red-carpet status symbol. This became clear at the 2026 Golden Globe Awards on January 11, when many stars opted for one-of-a-kind looks. Rather than pulling from the archives or opting for straight-off-the-runway gowns, the likes of Miley Cyrus, Chase Infiniti, Renate Reinsve, Ariana Grande, and Emily Blunt chose bespoke pieces, highlighting that originality is officially back in fashion.

Without further ado, familiarize yourself with five of the freshest trends set to take off in 2026, along with products to add to your wardrobe. By taking from whichever aesthetic (or two or three) fits into your style, you’ll be charting a sartorial path forward in no time.

@haileybieber / @izzipoopi / Instagram / Chloé / Koi Footwear / Byrdie

It’s been a minute since we’ve seen teal dominate the fashion scene. In fact, the shade hasn’t truly had its moment since the ’90s, when it became a popular choice for professional sports teams, including the Charlotte Hornets (NBA), Florida Marlins (NHL), and Jacksonville Jaguars (NFL). Now, the blue-green hue is taking a road less traveled, with more elevated takes entering our wardrobes. WGSN and Coloro named “Transformative Teal” the Color of the Year for 2026 back in 2024. Meanwhile, Hailey Bieber was an early adopter of the trend, having stepped out in a satin teal blouse from Gucci’s F/W '95 collection in September. The shade is sure to give butter yellow a run for its money.

@palomija / Instagram / Hutch / 3.1 Phillip Lim / Getty Images / Byrdie

Creative directors flexed their design muscles for S/S '26, delivering a wave of artisanal textured looks that felt like a breath of fresh air. Matthieu Blazy’s Chanel debut featured a multicolored skirt woven from recycled fibers, while Bottega Veneta unveiled a sculptural skirt crafted from recycled fiberglass. Fforme added a feathery blouse to the mix, solidifying texture as one of the season’s most compelling trends. Get ahead of the curve by incorporating the look into your 2026 wardrobe.

@burberry / @emitaz / Instagram / Abercrombie & Fitch / Getty Images / Byrdie

Every outfit is chicer with a scarf —at least, that’s what style aficionados would tell you. First, it was all about the scarf coat, which Toteme pioneered into a full-blown phenomenon in 2021. More recently, the detail has extended beyond outerwear, appearing on sweaters, blouses, and dresses alike. Altogether, it’s a seamless blend of fashion and function.

@damsonmadder / @prada / Instagram / & Other Stories / H&M / Byrdie

Millennials remember experimenting with layering as tweens, wearing one tank over another or layering two polos. In case you haven’t heard, the look is back, but this time around, it’s much sleeker and easier to wear. You don’t even have to stand in front of your closet debating over pairings: Many labels are offering pre-layered pieces that deliver the effect in one easy step. But if you’re down to get creative, glean inspiration from the S/S '26 runways, most notably Prada, Bottega Veneta, and Lii.

@toryburch / @jeffreycampbell / @vibramfivefingers / Instagram / Chelsea Paris / Byrdie

The weirder, the better seems to be the motto in the footwear department as of late. In 2025, so-called “ freaky shoes ”—coined by fashion analyst and trend forecaster Mandy Lee, aka @ oldloserinbrooklyn —took hold of the style set. From Tory Burch’s pierced heels to Jeffrey Campbell’s Tabi-inspired jelly flats, these offbeat silhouettes are sure to put your footwear rotation in a league of its own.