URL: https://www.instyle.com/look-of-the-day-2026-05-01-11964385
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Suki Waterhouse Styles a Naked Dress With the Summer 2026 Comfortable Boot Trend Cameron Diaz Loves

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Any Suki Waterhouse fan knows the artist has carved out her own piece of the sartorial sparklemuffin cake. Her personal style has always been a direct reflection of her whimsical personality. While words like boho and ethereal can be used to describe the overarching theme of her approach to getting dressed, delightfully funky yet chic is another identifier that you would be remiss not to mention. While attending the ASCAP 2026 Pop Awards at Chaplin Studios on April 30, she also made a compelling case for a new versatile summer staple to take over: the slouchy boot.

A naked dress on the carpet at this point is a rite of passage, and a silhouette Waterhouse has never been afraid of. You might think that a sheer, barely-there dress typically calls for something light and minimal. Instead, Waterhouse anchored the look with tall, softly structured brown leather boots. Her bone-white Ann Demeulemeester lace dress was cut on the bias and featured a small train that pooled behind her.

A vibrant pop of color and texture contrast was peppered in courtesy of a structured red military-style jacket. The piece was cropped and tailored with epaulettes and pearlescent button closures. It also had gold trim cuff detailing.

The anchor to her statement ensemble was just below her knee. Boho slouchy boots are a known favorite of Cameron Diaz, who has built much of her off-duty style around pieces that feel understated yet stylish. Ahead of this summer, you'd be remiss not to get in on the trend that will be paired with everything from barely-there outfits to relaxed jeans. There are so many different ways to wear with them, and the best part is they look so cute with literally anything, thanks to their unique look.

Schutz Delia Boots Shop now: $180; schutz.com

For Love & Lemons Verbana Slouch Boot Shop now: $239; forloveandlemons.com

rag & bone Astor Suede Boots Shop now: $224; bloomingdales.com

The Drop Gertie Boot Shop now: $100; amazon.com

Coutgo Slouchy Ankle Boots Shop now: $63; amazon.com

Anonymous Copenhagen Vulley Stiletto Shop now: $315; anoncph.com