URL: https://www.instyle.com/pantone-color-of-the-year-outfits-11863081
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 10 Ways to Wear "Cloud Dancer," the Pantone Color of the Year This Winter

From delicate lace accents to all-white co-ords.

Pantone recently announced its 2026 Color of the Year, and it’s shockingly subdued. “Cloud Dancer” is a true, neutral white—not an off-white, not a blue-tinted white, not even a cream—but white in the snowiest, airiest sense of the word.

While it’s safe to say that most of us did not predict “white” to be the defining color of 2026, there is something to be said about the color’s versatility and styling power, especially in winter. White can further enliven bright, splashy colors; it can provide a graphic contrast to rich black, brown, and trending burgundy; it can add levity to a heavy winter outfit. In sheer, floaty fabrics like lace and silk, white looks ethereal, making it the perfect counterpoint to edgier pieces like leather pants and jackets. When paired with jewel-toned colors like navy and hunter green, white is preppy; when styled alongside neutrals like tan and mocha brown (last year’s Color of the Year), it’s soft and cozy-looking.

Below, find 10 ways to wear the Pantone Color of the Year this winter, from Cloud Dancer accents to stark monochrome outfits.

A sheer white top is the perfect airy complement to black leather pants and grunge-inspired platform boots. While a bomber jacket adds just the right amount of warmth for mild climates, we can also envision this look with a full-length wool trench.

A matching set always conveys sophistication, plus, it removes a lot of the guesswork that comes with picking out an outfit. Pair yours with a statement shoe, like this sneaker-heel hybrid, or a boldly-colored skinny sneaker like the styles seen on the spring/summer runways.

A motorcycle jacket gets an unexpected softness courtesy of this white eyelet collar. Accessories like this are genius because you can use them to brighten up any staple in your wardrobe, from jackets to turtlenecks and button-downs.

In a baggy fit, white jeans are the epitome of laidback cool. Here, the casual style is contrasted against a fluffy fur coat, layered over a black sweater and simple gray balaclava. Cuffs at the ankle allow you to show off your shoe choice, whether you opt for loafers as well or a slouchy boot.

Shearling coats are a cozy, retro-inspired winter staple. Look for one with white trim to instantly brighten up an all-dark winter outfit; it looks so toasty next to this warm, caramel brown leather. A white purse completes the look.

We don’t need to remind you of the versatility of a simple white button-down. Here, Ava DuVernay pairs a boxy, cropped silhouette with a black pleated midi skirt and a leather bomber jacket. The result is one of glamorous, uncomplicated ease.

When in doubt, go monochrome. Here, a white silk blouse gives a white turtleneck and trousers a polished, pearly sheen. Go just as soft with your accessories: see this sky blue purse and these warm brown booties.

Everyone should own at least one statement coat. It’s typically the most visible garment in your wardrobe come winter—why not reach for one that stands out in a sea of plain puffers? This option features a black-and-white houndstooth check and fringe that falls below the knee.

One of the easiest ways to make an outfit more interesting is by experimenting with a variety of textures and layers. A snakeskin coat, lacy skirt, leather pants, and calfskin shoes may initially sound like busy pairing, but since they’re all done in neutral shades, they look complementary rather than clashing.

When winter blues start getting you down, reach for your prettiest, laciest garment and give it a seasonally-appropriate transformation. With the help of a black turtleneck, tights, boots, and a long coat, even a slip as dainty as this one feels winter-ready.