URL: https://fashionunited.com/specials/spring-summer-2026-fashion-trends
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Spring Summer 2026 fashion trends

The latest spring summer 2026 fashion trends and the new collections for the season. Many fashion brands have launched their spring summer 2026 collection, read about them in the trend news below. Various trend forecasters report about the spring summer 2026 fashion trend forecasts including colors, fabrics, silhouettes, patterns, styles, and more for clothing collections in upcoming seasons. You will find trend information for womenswear, menswear, childrenswear, shoes and accessories.

Versace unveils the Spring Summer 2026 eyewear campaign. A confronting portrait of modern glamour, photographed by Frank Lebon. Capturing the House’s fearless intensity and intimacy, the images gather Versace’s embodied community—a collective of singular and uncompromising figures, including dancer and choreographer Lexee Smith, model Chu Wong,...

Jimmy Choo unveils Natural Reflection, the new womenswear campaign for the summer 2026 collection. An exploration of the paradox between wild nature and angular architecture, elemental glamour and craftsmanship; the campaign channels the overall spirit of the collection: an attraction of opposites, distilled into pure sensation. On the edge of...

The wait is officially over. Love That Drop 2 has landed. Following the breakout success of Love That Drop 1, Marks & Spencer returns with a second, trend‑driven instalment - firmly focused on what’s shaping SS26 right now. Drop 1 proved customer demand was high for trend focused style, with the Waisted Asymmetric Khaki Blazer emerging as the...

The era of the purely functional bag is over; welcome to the age of “sensory utility.” In today’s accessory market, consumers demand an everyday carry that delivers a dual promise: exceptional tactile comfort and absolute, hands-free mobility. Parsing through the latest seasonal forecasts reveals two distinct silhouettes dominating this new...

Eternal Capri. A place of light, sea, and effortless living. For spring/summer 2026, Max Mara Beachwear pays homage to an iconic location and its timeless imagery: Capri in the 1960s. A capital of relaxed luxury and spontaneous sophistication, the island was the stage for 'La Dolce Vita'. It was a favourite retreat for great divas, poets, and...

Nordic lifestyle brand ARKET teams up with New York-based artist Laila Gohar on her debut ready-to-wear collection, launching for Spring/Summer 2026. The collaboration spans 27 pieces, translating Gohar’s singular aesthetic into a rich, multi-layered wardrobe, designed for moments that move between the everyday and the exceptional. Born in Cairo...

Inspired by the Art of Travel, a concept dear to Louis Vuitton, the Flight Mode collection showcases timeless, sophisticated creations. Ready-to-wear items, leather goods, shoes and accessories continue to enhance the wardrobe of the modern-day globetrotter. The bags are both practical and stylish, the looks are crafted from comfortable...

The Summer 2026 collection by Vilebrequin introduces the theme “Surnaturalism,” a more vibrant and bold interpretation of surrealism inspired by Saint-Tropez, blending elements of water and earth. The brand celebrates nature through intense colors, imaginative prints, and innovative materials. Credits: Vilebrequin Credits: Vilebrequin This...

There are summers you remember. A Levi’s® Summer you never forget. Starting in May, the Levi’s® brand is launching “A Levi’s® Summer,” a campaign built around a simple but powerful idea: Levi’s® shorts are summer. Tapping into the collective desire to put the phone down and reconnect with what is real, the campaign positions Levi’s® denim shorts...

The promise of longer, sunnier days inspires a desire for a lighter wardrobe. For spring/summer 2026, American Vintage focuses on comfortable materials, warm retro colours and relaxed fits. These pieces perfectly complement the essentials that form the DNA of the Marseille-based brand. On the way to Lisbon This season, the American Vintage team...

For Spring/Summer 2026, Lacoste redefines its iconic sporting heritage through a collection that explores the subtle space between performance and emotion. Inspired by the house’s heritage, the collection reimagines the athletic silhouette with a fresh perspective, blending ease with elegance and balancing sensuality with practicality. Inspired...

Canali and FC Internazionale Milano are pleased to unveil the new official outfit for the Spring/Summer 2026 season, continuing a collaboration that brings together two Italian excellences united by shared values of style, identity, and innovation. Designed to accompany First Team players during the warmer months, the new Canali proposal offers...