URL: https://www.instyle.com/nyc-fashion-trends-amazon-winter-2026-11884917
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Cigarette Jeans, Funnel-Neck Fleeces, and Cozy Ugg Boots Are NYC-Girl Approved for Winter 2026

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Snag Jennifer Aniston- and Hailey Bieber-worn picks.

In proper new year, new me fashion, I’m in the process of tackling a major closet cleanout. As I purge the pieces that no longer serve me, I’m making space for fresh finds—a.k.a. winter 2026 trends. Of course, I’m sourcing style inspiration from my favorite celebrities, but I’m really stealing shopping ideas from fellow New York City fashion girls. Lucky for me, the pieces I’ve been eyeing on every block start at just $18 on Amazon.

Since I’m no gatekeeper, I rounded up the six most popular winter styles I’m spotting on stylish NYC people. Below, browse through cozy staples like Ugg Classic Ultra Mini Boots and a luxe-looking faux fur coat. Plus, secure easy everyday bottoms including trending cigarette jeans and celebrity-approved trousers. Regardless of which pieces catch your eye, be sure to snag them ASAP—they’re trending for a reason and may sell out soon.

ICYMI: Cool girls are wearing cigarette jeans in 2026—just ask Jennifer Aniston and Hailey Bieber. If you act quickly, you can score this ultra-flattering Amazon Essentials pair for just $30 (yes, really). The bottoms boast a high-rise waistline and leg-elongating straight silhouette.

I’m running to checkout to secure this Keeliya Half-Zip Fleece Sweatshirt while it’s still in stock. Whether I’m braving pilates or dinner, I can always count on spotting someone in this effortlessly chic funnel-neck layer. I’m a big fan of this versatile khaki colorway, but you can score the snuggly style in a range of additional neutral tones.

Uggs have been gracing the feet of stylish people for decades, but they’re especially in for winter 2026. This season, stars like Sabrina Carpenter, Jennifer Lawrence, Gigi Hadid, and Sarah Jessica Parker have been sporting the brand’s mini boots on repeat—and I don’t blame them. The shearling-lined booties will keep your toes extra toasty through spring.

What if I told you that you can score this expensive-looking faux fur coat for just $60 on Amazon? This Tankaneo outerwear pick delivers a rich-girl air thanks to its statement silhouette, luxurious collar, and polished, cropped fit. Secure the style in this delicious brown shade or gray, black, and white options.

Speaking of styles that look far pricier than they are, these Prettygarden Wide-Leg Pleated Trousers are less than $30—but only for a limited time. The outfit-making pants look just like the pairs that Jennifer Lopez and Kate Hudson sported earlier this season. Not to mention, they’re ultra-comfy since they’re made with a sneaky elastic waistband.

While these chic micro glasses look nearly identical to the designer pairs I’m seeing everywhere, they’re actually just $18 at Amazon. The fashion-forward frames add a sophisticated flair to even the most basic outfits. Plus, they offer blue-light blocking, which is ideal if your screen time is as high as mine.

Run to Amazon to score these NYC cool-girl winter trends, starting at just $18.