URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/trends/best-spring-microtrends-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: If You're Wearing One of These Spring 2026 Microtrends, You're Obviously a Fashion Person

Fashion people always have their fingers on the pulse. One thing that is always a given for a style connoisseur is their dedication to the details. Fashion is all in the minute, whether that's accessories or clothing—pieces that make an outfit chic. These details could also be called micro-trends. While trends tend to cycle through quite quickly these days, a micro-trend doesn’t, and some even make their way to the everyday mainstream.

I’ve been noticing most of the current micro-trends on TikTok and Instagram, but every now and then, a stylish coworker or neighbor will step out in them too. These tiny but mighty details completely elevate every outfit. They’re also pieces that may be everyday items with a twist, which is always welcome in my wardrobe. If you want to look just as fashionable and cool as a fashion person this spring, try wearing these elegant spring micro-trends for 2026.

Cool girls are adding a fun element to their sandals for spring: flower appliqués. I never thought this would come back into trend, but here we are. This trend felt very nostalgic of girlhood. I remember having a pair of flower appliqué sandals as a child. Now, I'm having a full-circle moment, as it’s a mainstream trend again, even for adults. I love how fashion can have such a whimsical energy to it if you let it. Slide on a pair of these types of sandals instead of a plain pair if you want your outfits to pop more.

Flip-flops already had a big moment last year and are back and better than ever for this year, thanks to The Row’s viral pair of flip-flops. Now, the trend has been taken up a notch with a two-toned detail between the base of the shoe and the straps. Think red and black or pink and green. The options are such a fun way to add something interesting to an otherwise plain outfit. Style yours how all the It girls are with a pair of loose jeans and a button-down or lightweight sweater.

This is my favorite trend out of the bunch. I love spring layering. While I was definitely over winter layering and its bulkiness, spring layering just gives me hope for summer and an excuse to make my outfit just a little more fun to wear and look at. I noticed one of my coworkers wearing a lace-trim top underneath a sweater on Instagram and couldn’t help but be intrigued. Then, more stylish dressers started layering lace tops underneath shirts and sweaters, so I knew the trend would be here to stay for spring.

Gen Z fashion people, in particular, are really into the bug-eyed sunglass trend. They’re so dramatic, and I mean that in the best way. They give a diva-esque vibe and are perfect for especially bright days outside in the sun. Big sunglasses in this shape were very popular in the early aughts, and if you didn’t know, Gen Z is pretty into nostalgic styles these days. Spring 2026 is all about making the old new, and bug-eyed sunglasses are definitely in that category. Try styling yours with a basic tee and baggy jeans for a real 2000s indie sleaze look.

Sheer pants had a big moment last year, and so did balloon pants. Whoever thought to put the two trends together is a style genius. This pant trend has to be the chicest and most playful trend I’ve seen in a while. If you’re not super into the idea of wearing see-through pants, try styling them with full-coverage briefs, or just try them at the beach over a bathing suit, whether it be a one-piece or a bikini. Or style them with an oversized button-down so just your legs are revealed. I know sheer balloon pants this spring will be everywhere, and it could be fun to try out the trend if you’re feeling brave.

Bermuda shorts are already in for spring, but silk Bermuda shorts are a whole new concept. The ease and comfort of the longer shorts trend has always been a go-to of mine, but now that there’s an option for a softer, more delicate item to wear this spring has me extra excited for the warm weather. While it’s simple enough to add to an outfit, it makes a world of difference, adding a sophisticated element to an outfit.

At Who What Wear, fashion is our speciality. Our editors have years of industry experience, from reporting on seasonal fashion trends seen at international fashion weeks to working with some of the most recognizable names in fashion. Every item we recommend is carefully selected based on current trends, quality, and real-world wearability.

We regularly try pieces ourselves, including everything from best-selling jeans to designer shoes; speak to external experts and fashion insiders; and stay closely connected to what our readers are searching for. Our advice is grounded in expertise and has to pass our exceptional taste levels, so you can feel confident in every recommendation.

Kerane Marcellus is a New York-based writer. She joined the Who What Wear team in 2025 after writing for Essence Magazine and freelancing for a number of other arts and culture publications. Fashion is a form of expression that she encourages everyone to take part in. There is no right or wrong in getting dressed! When she's not writing, she's reading in the park or gallery hopping in the city.