URL: https://www.instyle.com/fashion-trends-fall-winter-2026-11929017
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: 20 Fashion Month Trends for Fall 2026—From Cartoon Fringe to Jazzy Jacquards

We might be itching for spring weather, but designers across New York, London, Milan, and Paris had their sights on the latter half of the year with their fall/winter 2026 collections. While the never-ending game of fashion musical chairs amongst creative directors was still in full effect, the real focus of the season was the awe-inspiring clothes that would have us clearing out our closets to make room for all the newness.

Officewear got a chic upgrade with relaxed silhouettes and snazzy shirts and ties that channel the cool-girl energy of a' 90s-era Julia Roberts. There was outerwear aplenty in snowy leopard prints, decadent grandma faux furs, sailor styles, and sleek rainproof pieces that blended polish and performance. Florals for fall were also big on the runways, but instead of the sunny springtime variants, these were darkly romantic, woven into rich jaquards, comfy knits, and pixelated prints.

Decadent gold lamés, medieval-like chainmail, playful plaids, and cartoonish fringe were textures that we can't wait to get our hands on. As for accessories designers, let their playful sides take over with garden-party heels complete with lily pads, over-the-top opulent jewelry, and gloves for every occasion, making a statement on the runways.

Ahead are the 20 trends we can't stop thinking about from this fashion month.

These aren’t your typical wallpaper prints. Fall/Winter 2026's jacquards are bold, bright, and a bit daring. Whether you wear the fabric as outerwear like the pieces at Michael Kors and Dior or go for a formal look in the style of Giorgio Armani, a decadent jacquard will be sure to make you stand out.

A faux-fur coat is a must-have for every fall wardrobe, but this time around, ditch the expected cheetah and tiger prints for something a bit more daring. Enter the snow leopard print, which popped up in the collections of Bottega Veneta, Carolina Herrera, and Tom Ford. The cooler tones of snow leopard are a chic way to upgrade any cold-weather wardrobe.

The cinched suits of the C-suite have given way to more relaxed tailoring and androgynous silhouettes synonymous with the ‘90s. Although a roomy grey suit may seem minimalist at first glance, the ones that walked at Boss, Emporio Armani, and Givenchy by Sarah Burton had plenty of gusto.

Getty Images, Courtesy of Jean Paul Gaultier, Courtesy of Givenchy.

Another styling option for the office? The coolest women’s suits come with all the extras this year, à la Julia Roberts at the 1990 Golden Globes. Shirts and ties dominated the runways, especially at Givenchy and Jean Paul Gaultier, where ties became a feminine statement.

Floral for fall? Consider it groundbreaking when you wear them in dark, romantic hues. A black background will let the color of the florals come to life, especially when woven into rich textures like the knits at Ralph Lauren, the fun fringe at Givenchy, and the pixelated prints at Dries Van Noten.

The nautical aesthetic made waves on the designer runways, proving that classic sailor collars, toggles, and pea coats can look splashy when crafted in sumptuous fabrics and sophisticated silhouettes, as seen at Etro, Ferragamo, and Dries Van Noten.

The plaids of the fall collections dared to be more playful and less prim than their predecessors. Think over-the-top volume like the plaid dresses at Chloé, the magpie styling at Acne Studios, or the elaborate moments at Loewe.

Fur fever continues to infect the fashion world, and this season, designers found inspiration in the outerwear of our grandmother’s generation. Belted, dramatic, and buttoned-up, these coats evoke the glamour of a bygone era.

Is it just me, or is this season’s fringe looking a little muppet-y? The fabulously textured showings at Chanel, Loewe, and Rick Owens prove that a cartoon quality can be chic when done right. Miss Piggy, eat your heart out.

The ‘80s called, and they are so back. The era of opulence showed up at Fashion Month in the form of decadent gold fabrics, like lamé, cut in ‘80s shapes. Shiny jeans at Gucci, a drop waist at Ferragamo, and a sharp shoulder at Mugler brought this retro trend fully into 2026.

Courtesy of Celine, Courtesy of McQueen, Getty Images

Chainmail details dominated the Fall/Winter 2026 collections, showing up on tops and jackets at Ralph Lauren, dresses under trenches at Celine, and peplum work shirts at McQueen. It’s medieval, made for the modern Joan of Arc.

Against type, Fall 2026 is proving to be just as much a garden party as spring—especially when it comes to footwear. At Chanel, spikey flowers adorned slingbacks, and at Dior, lillypads became t-straps. For Prada, floral socks added a delightful spring to the step of embellished kitten heels.

More is more, especially when it comes to jewelry. Across the runways of Saint Laurent, Celine, and Chanel, gold baubles adorned ears, necks, and even clothing in tribute to the over-the-top '80s era of excess.

The only thing predictable about transitional weather is that it’s unpredictable. This means having outerwear that blends polish and performance is key. A classic rain slicker gets a sleek makeover from designers like Lacoste, Loewe, and Tod’s, tricked out with hi-tech materials and dramatic cuts.

The higher the collar, the closer to heaven (did we get that saying right?). We haven’t been able to stop thinking about Wuthering Heights since our matinee viewing this February, and the era's pure romanticism has extended to the catwalk, too, courtesy of lace and silk confections.

A perfect shoe should fit like a glove—with a personal Cinderella moment of security. More elegant than a ballet flat and more refined than a kitten heel, high vamp shoes waltzed down the runways, color blocked, brightly hued, and glazed in full swing. It’s true, after a few years of hiding in the shadows, high heels are coming back into the scene with a vengeance.

A pop of color here, a funky pattern there—any and all gloves will do the trick. Whether you want to partake in the sandwich method the Anna Sui way and coordinate your pants to your gloves, or simply throw on another unexpected punchy hue, consider it the finishing touch to your look.

Fashion is circular—we know this, and yet the peplum tops of today only resemble the ghosts of the past. At Dior, billowing peplum silhouettes were presented in a shortened version of the house’s Bar jacket paired with a skirt's pouf. And at Ashlyn, the whimsical factor was dialed down by showcasing tops that flared out ever-so-slightly from the waist.

Not my circus, and yet, the monkeys seem kinda fun to hang out with. Dramatic chevron prints in a kaleidoscope of vibrant shades and dramatic cascading ruffles that resemble those of a jester are making it fun to clown around this season. Minimalism, who?

The statement skirt has returned to the forefront of the sartorial wheel over the last several seasons, and now designers are serving up a double shot of nostalgia from your 2016 dreams. The high-low skirt is back, baby, and while some iterations evoke the styles celebrities wore around music festival grounds, other takes are significantly pared back (such as at Louis Vuitton) in a way that feels more wearable for everyday.