URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/trends/spring-summer-transitional-trends-2026
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: The Most Fashionable People Are All Wearing These 6 Trends Between Spring and Summer

The period that appears after spring and before summer brings a few things for us to contend with fashion-wise: temperature dips that force us to keep our jackets on hand for a little longer, and the warmer weather that hints that maybe summer really is well and truly on the way after all. That's what makes spring-to-summer transitional trends such a welcome sight.

Between the official starts of each season, this stretch of time makes getting dressed in the morning nothing short of puzzling. Shorts and sandals don't feel quite right yet, but your dark-wash jeans and boots also feel out of place. Well, leave it to the most fashionable people to find the pieces that fit neatly into the capsule wardrobes you've created for both seasons.

My idea of a spring-to-summer transitional trend is a garment or accessory that works flawlessly between both times of year, but also feels inherently like these seasons.

Of course, staples like white T-shirts and the best blue jeans always work, but they're year-round musts. However, the following trends are emerging specifically in this in-between, and the colours, cuts and materials they take the form of make them feel ripe for a spring or summer outfit. For instance, butter yellow denim and breezy romantic blouses almost feel synonymous with sunny days.

So if you're looking for those exact pieces to get you from spring to summer (and beyond), scroll on for six spring and summer trends you can easily rely on.

Style Notes: It's true, bohemian fashion is having a renaissance this spring, and the frilly, puffy, romantic blouses that come with this style are included. Options like balloon-sleeve shirts, short puffed-sleeve blouses or peasant blouses offer plenty of layering opportunities for spring but can be easily worn on their own come summer thanks to their breezy silhouettes and breathable materials.

Pair with jeans or linen trousers this spring and summer.

A statement sleeve makes even the most simple outfits look more elevated.

An off-the-shoulder style adds so much elegance.

Style Notes: With the return of this skirt silhouette, there are so many perfect pencil skirt outfit ideas to try between spring and summer. A light linen or cotton button-down in a pastel hue is a great way to adapt this specific trend for warmer days.

This chic butter yellow option comes with a matching blazer.

Khaki jeans have taken over this spring, and this skirt continues the trend for summer.

A very sleek and sheer skirt for summer occasions.

Style Notes: Katie Holmes recently revisited her exposed bra styling hack, and the timing couldn't be better. The in-between of spring and summer holds the best moments for pairing lightweight knits with a stylish bralette. When summer fully arrives, you can swap cardigans for linen button-downs or sheer tops.

This colour combination is so eye-catching and playful.

Spring calls for verdant green undergarments.

Neutrals are always a must but the lacy straps on this bra make it feel more special.

Style Notes: There are so many ways to wear a silk scarf, and in the summer, it looks undeniably fashion-forward as a belt. This swathe of silk adds dimension and layers (that aren't too warm) to your outfit and a splash of colour. You can also wear them as headbands or as tops on their own.

The watercolour flower print on this one is beautiful.

This print is inspired by the codes of luxury houses like Celine and Gucci.

Something the fashion minimalists and neutral enthusiasts will love. It comes in black with cream stripes and cream with black stripes.

Style Notes: I love a great pair of white jeans as much as the next person, but I'll never shy away from another hue that exudes the same kind of warm-weather energy. They have more colour than ecru or bright white, but they feel nearly as versatile and vibrant for these two seasons.

These are the perfect pale hue if you want something closer to ecru but slightly buttermilk-y.

These come in 10 different sizes and four lengths.

This cut feels like the perfect mix between barrel-leg and wide-leg.

Style Notes: If you were wondering what the next trainer trend would be, it's undoubtedly the derby shoe. This style of footwear gives you the functionality of a trainer with a silhouette that's more elegant and akin to a loafer. With a blazer and tailored trousers, Marilyn shows that they're so easy to dress up. You can also wear them with denim or linen trousers for a more laidback approach.

The lack of eyelets give these shoes such a subtle, gentle silhouette.

I love how sleek and sharp a pointed toe looks. Who knew this shape would look so nice on a derby shoe?

Melissa Epifano Varley is a writer and editor who covers fashion, home, and beauty. She has over seven years of experience and has written for Forbes, InStyle, People, The Zoe Report, and Byrdie. She has also served as the editor-in-chief of Real Homes and lifestyle editor at The Spruce and ran her own wide-fit footwear line for over three years. She graduated a year early from the University of Oregon with a Bachelor of Science in journalism. Melissa has won the PPA Next Gen Award and currently covers fashion, trend, and shopping content for Who What Wear. She’s passionate about helping readers discover their own sense of style in their wardrobes and homes—whether that’s through products, trends, or concepts that they deeply resonate with and makes them feel their best. She’s originally from the U.S. but is now based in Bath where she spends her free time reading books, creatively writing, and taking part in more esoteric endeavours like reiki and tarot.