URL: https://www.byrdie.com/winter-white-outfits-11903967
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: Winter White Is the It-Girl Secret to Exiting a Style Rut: 10 Outfits to Try

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Winter always brings a wave of layering-friendly style possibilities—think fuzzy bucket hats, cozy scarves, and fancy gloves for topping off your statement coats. But we’re officially at that point in the season when getting dressed feels less inspired. If the relentless wind chills have you in a style rut, sometimes the easiest reset is giving your all-black uniform a break (as hard as that may be). There’s no shortage of color trends to this season, but nothing feels quite as crisp or effortlessly chic as winter white. And while Pantone naming Cloud Dancer as the color of 2026 sparked some debate, the bright shade does serve as a welcomed palate cleanser for winter. From New York to Aspen, cool girls are giving white a modern update with texture play, new styling tricks, and statement pieces.

Whether you’re pairing stark white denim with black leather à la Bella Hadid or leaning into a monochrome look topped with this season’s must-have faux-fur coat, a pop of white is the minimalist refresh your closet’s been craving. Ahead, see 10 winter white outfit ideas to breathe new life into your cold-weather rotation —and get you through the rest of the tundra-like season in style.

Bella Hadid gave winter white a fresh après-ski spin with this chic Aspen look. For an unexpected contrast, pair crisp white denim with a sleek black leather jacket—a combo that feels both timeless and modern. To channel a ’90s-inspired minimalist vibe worthy of both Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and the OG models-off-duty, take a cue from Hadid and accessorize with oval sunnies, a headband, and black leather ankle boots.

Make a monochromatic look stand out by mixing textures. Start with a cozy white knit turtleneck and sleek, high-waisted trousers, then layer on one of the season’s top outerwear trends: a voluminous, furry coat. To up the ante, add an equally plush accessory—a fluffy bag or bucket hat—for extra dimension. Keep the vibe casual and cool by finishing with retro white sneakers.

A matching two-piece set isn’t just for warmer months. Go for an all-white long-sleeve top and maxi skirt for a sleek, modern alternative to your usual all-black uniform. The longer proportions keep you cozy while pairing effortlessly with knee-high boots and a statement overcoat.

The most unexpected winter white? A light tulle or ruffled skirt paired with a black scarf top and boots for a chic seasonal mashup. The contrast adds instant drama and flair to your cold-weather looks, while a statement belt pulls the whole outfit together.

Say hello to the grown-up, infinitely more elevated version of your childhood snowsuit. Layer a fluffy coat over a crisp white blazer and trousers for a chic, all-white suit ensemble. Keep it monochrome with white boots or loafers, or add a pop of contrast in the form of bold hues or this season’s trending animal prints for maximum impact.

Winter whites don’t always have to be chunky knits and faux fur textures. For an unexpected seasonal twist, opt for a light, ethereal boho style. A creamy white bell-sleeved midi dress pairs seamlessly with slouchy knee-high boots for a look that feels straight out of Stevie Nicks’s ‘70s wardrobe. Add delicate layered chain necklaces and an oversized clutch to amplify those dreamy vibes.

When styled with the simple outfit formula of classic blue jeans, a black sweater, and leather boots, a fluffy, frosty-white coat is the ultimate city girl uniform for chilly temps. Whether you go for a boho-inspired shag style or a cozy teddy material, the soft texture pairs nicely with denim and leather staples.

A winter white outfit doesn’t have to be monochromatic to achieve style points. A classic black-and-white pairing is one of the easiest ways to get the look. Style a cozy white jumper and tailored black trousers together, and layer a crisp white button-down or a simple tee underneath to add dimension while keeping the ‘fit polished. Finish with sleek boots or loafers for a chic, effortlessly cool vibe.

Not ready to commit to head-to-toe white? A statement blanket scarf is all you need. The pop of white—especially against an all-black outfit —adds an instant bright hit in the coziest way. Drape it like a cape for that scarf-meets-coat vibe, or wrap it balaclava-style, just like this season’s It girls. Amp up the impact by pairing it with an oversized clutch in the same crisp hue.

When you hear “winter white,” animal print probably isn’t the first thing that comes to mind. But this season’s love of all things leopard, cow, deer, zebra, and beyond opens the door to fresh takes on the classic neutral. Opt for a white faux-fur cow print or snow leopard style to nail two trends at once without feeling over-the-top. The statement coat does all the work, leaving you free to throw it over your go-to turtleneck and jeans.