URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/spring-2026-fashion-trends
Scope: seasonal_trends_2026
Title: The Key Spring 2026 Trends to Add to Your Wardrobe Now

The spring 2026 collections arrived with a palpable sense of excitement, and for a good reason. This season marked a true industry reset, with nearly 15 newly appointed creative directors debuting their visions and setting the tone for the spring 2026 trends across the major fashion houses. The overarching sentiment was expressive, celebratory, and deeply personal—driven by individuality and the pure joy of getting dressed.

One of the season’s leading themes was “fashion as feeling”—a fitting sentiment not only captured in the movement of the clothes (the fringe! the feathers! the frothy lace!) as designers experimented with tactile textures and proportion, but also the emotional finale of Mathieu Blazy’s Chanel debut, when Awar Odhiang closed the show with a smile so bright it lit up the entire Grand Palais.

A certain kind of soft, relaxed elegance was also explored this season, characterized by scarf styling and drop-waist silhouettes for an overall look that felt sophisticated yet undone. Prep’s moment continues, with an emphasis on color and practical layering that feels apt for transitional dressing and a little more expressive than your traditional uniform.

The spring 2026 collections pick up where we left off in the fall, with personality-driven looks rooted in wearability. Think of it as real-life dressing with a flourish. Find an introduction to the key spring 2026 trends below—with the key pieces to shop to recreate your favorite moods, as the collections trickle into stores.

Want even more trends? Make sure to check out our guide to the top spring shoe trends and the key spring handbag trends.

Photos: Courtesy of Burberry, Akris, Lemaire, Balmain, Ralph Lauren

Utility dressing answers the call for clothes that work as hard as you do. Designers leaned into uniform-inspired silhouettes made from durable fabrics, with details rooted in functionality. Earth tones define the palette, however, their sensible nature doesn’t mean boring—especially not when paired with something unexpected for contrast (see: Burberry’s metallic tunic and cargo jacket mashup).

From the runway to real life, this season’s fashion took cues from the hobbies and pastimes that shape our everyday routines. Lifestyle staples became standout fashion moments, from Celine’s riding helmets and Miu Miu’s aprons to Dries Van Noten’s board shorts. The result is a wardrobe that feels personal and rooted in the pleasure of daily life.

Planning your next holiday in the sun? Look to retro-inspired prints to bring a nostalgic charm to your vacation wardrobe. Channel the mood with Suzie Kondi’s striped trousers, Chloé’s floral bodysuit, or Dries Van Noten’s kaftan pieces that feel equal parts glamorous, relaxed, and ready for an escape.

Photos: Courtesy of The Row, Staud, Prada, Loewe, Saint Laurent

Nylon anoraks and technical bottoms styled with heels and tailoring prove that the contrast is key when fashion-ifying sporty staples. Prada shows us how it's done by pairing a citron-hued snap jacket with crisp shirting and a full skirt.

Photos: Courtesy of Tom Ford, Proenza Schouler, Tory Burch, Chanel, Ferragamo, Lanvin

A silhouette favored by icons both fictional and real, the 1920s shift dress returns in modern fabrics and prints. Its drop-waist and relaxed, midi-length fit offers an elegant alternative to tailoring or overly draped pieces; its inherent ease perfectly aligns with the season’s softer approach.

Photos: Courtesy of Bottega Veneta, Miu Miu, Stella McCartney, Ami, Proenza Schouler

When the weather can’t make up its mind, it’s time to get ultra-creative with your layers. Out-style mercurial forecasts with clever—and lightweight—pieces that offer warmth without the bulk. In practice, that might look like colorful shirting paired with cropped outerwear and a silk scarf (à la Miu Miu or Bottega); or a cropped jacket atop a button-down and knit.

Photos: Courtesy of No.21, Prada, Celine, Boss, Bottega Veneta

Fans of fall’s modern prep look will find much to love in spring’s take, as designers pushed the idea of uniform dressing into more expressive territory with offbeat color combos and layered styling. The look here is built around functional staples—cardigans, pencil skirts, button-downs, and V-neck sweaters—animated by the element of surprise, like a flash of red peeking out from a printed shirt, or vibrant leather gloves that contrast a more muted color palette. Recreate the lit-chic look with &Daughters’s cardigan over TWP’s blue button-down and Jil Sander’s pleated skirt.

Photos: Courtesy of Dior, Maria McManus, Ferragamo, Carven, Calvin Klein

Driven by a sense of elegant ease, soft, draped tailoring and robe-like silhouettes define the mood—think of these as the kind of clothes Marella Agnelli might wear sailing along the Amalfi coast. Long scarves are a key styling detail, wrapped around the neck or waist, with swishy tassels that sashay with each step. Look for pieces in silk and satin that move with the body just so, like Khaite’s butter yellow skirt or Fforme’s maxi dress.

Photos: Courtesy of Chanel, Balenciaga, Khaite, Altuzarra

There was a shared love of craft and bold use of color in the collections of Chanel, Bottega Veneta, Loewe, Balenciaga, Khaite, and Altuzarra. We saw several statement skirts paired with simple tops; the texture and dramatic proportion being the focal point of the look. Try Loulou de Saison’s fringe dress, which is still neutral yet bold, or opt for Chloé’s tiered maxiskirt with a simple knit for playful charm.

Photos: Courtesy of Lanvin, Michael Kors, Celine, Hermes, Kallmeyer

With blown-up prints and exaggerated proportions, scarves went from accent to key element of the look. Multicolored and patterned silks were fashioned into tops and dresses, wrapped around the waist, and knotted over the shoulder for styling that pushed the limits.