URL: https://www.instyle.com/stylist-recommended-spring-2026-wardrobe-staples-amazon-11935927
Scope: wardrobe_staples_capsule_and_shopping_guides
Title: A Stylist Told Me the 6 Fashion Purchases I Need to Make for 2026—Including a Martha Stewart-Worn Sneaker Style

If you click on links we provide, we may receive compensation.

Plus, an “underrated” accessory that will take your outfit to the next level.

Almost four months into 2026 and I'm still trying to fill the gaps in my closet. I have my tried-and-true staples, but I think the start of a new season is always great time to revamp my wardrobe. It's also a time to clear out some space, give away what you don’t wear, and of course, add a new piece or two to the mix. I’m always trying to conjure up new ways to be more intentional with the clothing I’m adding to my wardrobe, so this time, I decided to defer to the experts.

Samantha Dawn is a personal stylist and she was able to recommend six items she suggests everyone should have in their spring wardrobe for 2026. From Martha Stewart-worn sneakers to expensive-looking knits, her picks will add some great variety to your closet, starting at just $10.

A good jacket in a fun print or pop of color is such a versatile wardrobe staple. “In colder climates, your jacket is the outfit,” says Dawn. “Invest in a statement jacket to elevate your look while expressing your personality.” A long wool peacoat is a staple, but consider opting for one in a fun color like green or blue.

We saw suede sneakers pop off in 2025, (even Martha Stewart is a fan ), and Dawn thinks everyone needs a pair. “Textured sneakers add another layer of dimension into your outfit and can be really playful.” Besides suede, she also recommends fabrics like leather, denim, and ponyhair.

Dawn’s first recommendation is a pair of medium-wash denim because it can work for any and every occasion. “Invest in a high quality pair with a silhouette that best suits your shape so you can wear it for years to come,” she explains. Levi’s are always a great investment, and the Ribcage Straight-leg jeans are a perfect high-rise with a slightly cropped hem to show off your shoes.

Next up on the list is a good belt, which Dawn describes as an “underrated accessory that helps pull an outfit together, defines the waistline, and can take your outfit to another level.” Besides pants, she likes adding belts to dresses, blazers, and jackets. “Belt loops aren't necessary,” she adds.

Don’t underestimate the power of a statement earring, which adds dimension and playfulness to a look, per Dawn. Whether you like the aforementioned chunky hoops or romantic pearls, earrings always make your look feel more dressed-up and intentional.

A cashmere sweater is the sort of staple you will have in your closet for years to come. This crewneck sweater from Naadam is $98, and shoppers write it’s the “most perfect basic that looks just a little more elevated.”

Shop more Amazon finds from Dawn’s recommendation’s below.