URL: https://www.whowhatwear.com/fashion/outfit-ideas/easy-outfit-combinations-2026
Scope: wardrobe_staples_capsule_and_shopping_guides
Title: 7 Easy Outfit Combinations I Turn to When I'm in a Major Style Rut

I started 2026 with one very clear resolution: to create a wardrobe that’s elegant, timeless, and most importantly, makes getting dressed for any occasion feel as stress-free as possible. In winter, I found it easy, thanks to my long wool coats and sleek leather trenches doing most of the work for me. However, this has already proven to be much more difficult as the temperature rises, and I can no longer use maxi outerwear as the focal point of my outfits. Mastering the art of elegant dressing in warmer weather can be challenging at the best of times. So, with just over a month until the new season, I decided to go on the hunt for some easy outfit combinations that look chic and intentional but require minimal effort for spring 2026. Think classic, fail-proof pairings that will look put together for any and every occasion, while also making everyday dressing as simple as possible. From classic blue jeans paired with polished blazers and ankle boots, to elegant maxi dresses worn with a sleek trench and strappy sandals, below, I've rounded up seven easy outfit combinations to copy in spring 2026 and beyond. Keep scrolling to see and shop the looks.

Style Notes: It doesn't get much more classic than a jeans, a boxy blazer and ankle boots combo. It's a fail-proof way to look put together in any season, but for spring 2026 specifically, I'll be reaching for a blazer in a lighter hue like cream to brighten up the outfit.

A relaxed blazer will add some polish to your jeans.

You can't go wrong with a classic blue jeans.

Style Notes: On those chillier spring days, a leather blazer is an easy way to make your outfits look elevated. My personal tip? Let the leather act as the focal point of your look and keep everything else super simple.

Whistles has some on the best leather on the high-street.

You'll reach for this from now until early autumn.

COS' wide-leg trousers are a bestseller for very good reason.

Style Notes: Sundress season is almost upon us! But before the weather starts to improve here in the UK, I'll be throwing a timeless trench over the top. This combo, plus a pair of strappy sandals, will be my go-to for spring and summer evenings out.

This looks way more expensive than it's £18 price tag.

Style Notes: I'm well aware that capri pants are a controversial choice. But just look at how chic they look with a cropped trench and kitten heels! This is one of those minimal-effort outfits that have a huge impact.

This will act as the base layer for so many of your outfits.

Wear with trousers, leggings and jeans alike.

The olive green makes for a nice difference from black or brown.

Style Notes: I live in my linen trousers and sandals the second the temperature starts to rise, but they can often feel a bit too dressed down for the office. I’ll therefore be adding a classic white button-down shirt as an easy way to polish up the outfit.

Nothing beats a crisp white shirt, in my opinion.

I swear by COS' linen trousers year after year.

These look like so many high-end options on the market.

A sleek pair of sunnies will instantly make your outfits look cooler.

Style Notes: A white midi skirt instantly evokes the freshness of spring and summer. For an effortlessly elegant look, try going fully monochrome and pair it with a lightweight black tee, leather flip-flops, and a crisp white handbag.

Style Notes: I can't be the only one who's desperate to get my linen out? A classic white shirt in this heat-proof fabric will look polished with a pair of tailored shorts and loafers for both the office and casual days out alike.

YSL loafers are loved by editors and fashion people alike.

I've had these on my luxury wishlist for years.

As WWW UK’s junior writer, Brittany focuses on creating compelling fashion, shopping and beauty content for site, and works closely with the Managing Editor on recurring columns and franchises. She has a passion for all things fashion, beauty and lifestyle related, but is particularly fond of fragrance, with a personal collection to rival any beauty editor's! Prior to Who What Wear, Brittany worked as the Shopping Assistant at Reach Plc and across a number of publications, including OK!, Notebook, S Mag and The Mirror. In this role, she was responsible for creating on-site beauty and fashion content, compiling shopping grids and filming and editing weekly video content for the brand’s social media account.