URL: https://www.vogue.com/spring-2026-shopping-list
Scope: wardrobe_staples_capsule_and_shopping_guides
Title: Spring 2026 Shopping List

Lace-ups are their most slimmed-down version this spring. Innocuous in shape, they’re anything but an afterthought. Go for a bright white pair for high contrast—as seen at Celine, Sportmax, and Wales Bonner.

A staple of 1980s power dressing returns with renewed relevance, reimagined in endless forms: gently knotted at the nape of the neck, cinched tight like a bow tie, left loose for undone elegance, or finished with a brooch for extra polish. We especially love it the Saint Laurent way with leather separates and pointy pumps.

Funnel-neck jackets and balloon pants—first seen last spring—continue to shape the narrative. Play with proportions by wearing them together.

The love child of a sneaker and ballet flat, sneakerinas are the perfect in-between option for fashion girls who want the ease and practicality of a trainer but the refinement of a ballerina. A neutral pair won’t lead you astray—but why not have fun with it? The best styles on the market right now are rich in detail and vivid in color.

Spring’s layering memo gives the familiar an air of revelation by shifting the look from one of each to two of the same. Take cues from Jil Sander and opt for pre-styled knits and shirts that feel like both an optical illusion and a clever way to layer with color.

There’s a way to adhere to evening dress codes while still incorporating personal flourish—the secret’s all in the accessories. (And no, we’re not just talking about the heels or the clutch, though, equally crucial to the look.) Rather, your jewelry. In lieu of a strand of diamonds, layered pendants offer a point of interest that’s refined and distinctly you.

We’re calling it from now: Street style’s cool-girls will all be wearing Bermuda shorts and shield sunglasses come warmer weather—two statements great alone, even better together. Add an oversized T-shirt and relaxed blazer make it office-ready; a silk cami and strappy sandals are perfect for a night out.

Chanel made a strong case for statement skirts and glove pumps. Channel the vibe of Look 17 with a button-down—worn loose, not tucked. We’ve got Blazy on the brain, after all.

Jonathan Anderson’s debut collection bridged past and present, giving house signatures a modern look and attitude. Denim is the perfect counterpoint here, to balance the drama of an embellished jacket and satin heels with real-life wearability.

Louise Trotter brings fresh perspective to the art of layering, styling a silk cowl-neck blouse underneath a crisp button-down for a soft finish. It’s a novel pairing that reframes transitional dressing—think of it as spring’s version of the second-skin turtleneck and shirt look.

Fashioned as a top or a dress; knotted at the neck or wrapped over the shoulder, the silk scarf is easily the season’s most versatile accessory. Kallmeyer’s graphic scarf is draped languidly over the shoulder here for graphic punch in a tonal look, taking loose inspiration from the label’s spring runway show.

The structured black coat is elevated in sumptuous pony hair—the perfect transitional piece for mastering in-between dressing when paired with a pencil skirt and pale pink button-down.

If you’re investing in a button-down, make it a colored one—it’ll prove just as versatile as a classic white one, but a lot more fun. Extra personality points if you pin a brooch onto it—Indress’s delicate creations are all hand-made in France.

The logo belt is back—but not as you remember it. Dior and Celine turn it into a modern-day medallion, with the name engraved in the center. Make it the focal point of your look and keep the rest of your outfit streamlined. As seen on the runways at Prada and Tory Burch, a simple polo knit or cardigan is the perfect base to build your look around—perfectly layerable and completely versatile.

Add personality with thoughtful accessories: A pendant necklace and fringed scarf as a belt round out the look with character. Both are key styling details this season, seen across the runways and in street style.

Denim for days at your desk? Go for structure over slouch with a crease front pair that offers the ease of jeans with the polish of trousers. A printed top plus fitted blazer solves the office style equation.